
MAO TSE-TUNG 
PEOPLE OF THE WORLD, 
UNITE AND DEFEAT 
THE U.S. AGREESSORS 
AND ALL THEIR LACKEYS 
FOREIGN LANGUAGES PRESS 
P E K I N G

From Marx to Mao 
ML 
© Digital Reprints 
2006

MAO TSE-TUNG 
PEOPLE OF THE WORLD, 
UNITE AND DEFEAT 
THE U.S. AGREESSORS AND 
ALL THEIR LACKEYS 
‹ Statements Supporting the American Negroes 
and the Peoples of Southern Vietnam, Panama, Japan, 
the Congo (L.) and the Dominican Republic in Their 
Just Struggle Against U.S. Imperialism 
FOREIGN LANGUAGES PRESS 
PEKING 1966

Printed in the People¹s Republic of China 
First Edition 1964 
Second (Enlarged) Edition 1966 
PUBLISHER¹S NOTE 
This booklet was first published in 1964 under the title 
Statements of Mao Tse-tung Calling on the People of the 
World to Unite to Oppose the Aggressive and Bellicose 
Policies of U.S. Imperialism and Defend World Peace. 
It is reprinted under the present title. with two additional 
statements supporting the peoples of the Congo (L.) and 
the Dominican Republic against U.S. aggression.

C O N T E N T S 
STATEMENT SUPPORTING THE AMERICAN NEGROES IN 
THEIR JUST STRUGGLE AGAINST RACIAL DISCRIMINATION 
BY U.S. IMPERIALISM (August 8, 1963) 1 
STATEMENT OPPOSSING AGGRESSION AGAINST SOUTHERN 
VIETNAM AND STAUGHTER OF ITS PEOPLE BY THE U.S.- 
NGO DINH DIEM CLIQUE (August 29, 1963) 5 
STATEMENT SUPPORTING THE PANAMANIAN PEOPLE¹S 
JUST PATRIOTIC STRUGGLE AGAINST U.S. IMPERIALISM 
(January 12, 1964) 8 
STATEMENT SUPPORTING THE JAPANESE PEOPLE¹S JUST 
PATRIOTIC STRUGGLE AGAINST U.S. IMPERIALISM (January 
27, 1964) 11 
STATEMENT SUPPORTING THE PEOPLE OF THE CONGO (L.) 
AGAINST U.S. AGGRESSION (November 28, 1964) 13 
STATEMENT SUPPORTING THE JAPANESE PEOPLE¹S RESISTANCE 
TO U.S. ARMED AGGRESSION (May 28, 1964) 15 
A copy of this material has been filed with the Foreign Agents 
Registration Section, Department of Justice, Washington D.C. 
where the registration statement of China Books & Periodicals, 
2929 - 24th St. San Francisco 10, Calif. as an agent of Guozi 
Shudan of Peking, China, is available for inspection. The fact 
of registration does not indicate approval of this material by 
the Government of the United States.


1 
STATEMENT SUPPORTING THE AMERICAN 
NEGROES IN THEIR JUST STRUGGLE AGAINST 
RACIAL DISCRIMINATION BY U.S. IMPERIALISM 
August 8, 1963 
An American Negro leader now taking refuge in Cuba, Mr. 
Robert Williams, the former President of the Monroe, North 
Carolina, Chapter of the National Association for the Advancement 
of Coloured People, has twice this year asked me for 
a statement in support of the American Negroes¹ struggle 
against racial discrimination. On behalf of the Chinese people, 
I wish to take this opportunity to express our resolute support 
for the American Negroes in their struggle against racial discrimination 
and for freedom and equal rights. 
There are more than 19 million Negroes in the United States, 
or about 11 per cent of the total population. They are enslaved, 
oppressed and discriminated against ‹ such is their position in 
society. The overwhelming majority are deprived of their right 
to vote. In general, only the most backbreaking and despised 
jobs are open to them. Their average wages are barely a third 
or a half those of the white people. The proportion of unemployment 
among the Negroes is the highest. In many states 
they are forbidden to go to the same school, eat at the same 
table, or travel in the same section of a bus or train as the white 
Mao Tse-tung, Chairman of the Central Committee of the Communist 
Party of China, made this statement when receiving a group of African 
friends. ‹ Ed.

2 
people. Negroes are often arrested, beaten up or murdered at 
will by the U.S. authorities at various levels and by members 
of the Ku Klux Klan and other racists. About half the American 
Negroes are concentrated in eleven southern states, 
where the discrimination and persecution they suffer are especially 
shocking. 
The American Negroes are awakening and their resistance is 
growing stronger and stronger. Recent years have witnessed a 
continuous expansion of their mass struggle against racial discrimination 
and for freedom and equal rights. 
In 1957 the Negro people in Little Rock, Arkansas, waged a 
fierce struggle against the barring of their children from public 
schools. The authorities used armed force against them, creating 
the Little Rock incident which shocked the world. 
In 1960 Negroes in more than twenty states held ³sit-in² 
demonstrations protesting against racial segregation in local 
restaurants, shops and other public places. 
In 1961 the Negroes launched the ³freedom riders² campaign 
to oppose racial segregation in public transportation, a campaign 
which rapidly spread to many states. 
In 1962 the Negroes in Mississippi fought for the equal right 
to enrol in colleges and met with bloody suppression by the 
authorities. 
This year, the American Negroes started their struggle early 
in April in Birmingham, Alabama. Unarmed and bare-handed 
Negro people were arrested en masse and most barbarously 
suppressed merely for holding meetings and parades against 
racial discrimination. On June 12 Mr. Medgar Evers, a leader 
of the Negro people in Mississippi, was murdered in cold blood. 
Defying brutality and violence, the indignant black masses 
waged their struggle even more heroically and quickly won the 
support of Negroes and other people of various strata throughout 
the United States. A gigantic and vigorous nation-wide

3 
struggle is going on in nearly every city and state, and the 
struggle is mounting. American Negro organizations have decided 
to start a ³freedom march² on Washington on August 28, 
in which 250,000 people will take part. 
The speedy development of the struggle of the American 
Negroes is a manifestation of sharpening class struggle and 
sharpening national struggle within the United States; it has 
been causing increasing anxiety among U.S. ruling circles. The 
Kennedy Administration is insidiously using dual tactics. On 
the one hand, it continues to connive at and take part in discrimination 
against Negroes and their persecution, and it even 
sends troops to suppress them. On the other hand; in the attempt 
to numb the fighting will of the Negro people and deceive 
the masses of the country the Kennedy Administration is 
parading as an advocate of ³the defence of human rights² and 
³the protection of the civil rights of Negroes², calling upon the 
Negro people to exercise ³restraint² and proposing the ³civil 
rights legislation² to Congress. But more and more Negroes 
are seeing through these tactics of the Kennedy Administration. 
The fascist atrocities of the U.S. imperialists against the Negro 
people have exposed the true nature of so-called American democracy 
and freedom and revealed the inner link between the 
reactionary policies pursued by the U.S. government at home 
and its policies of aggression abroad. 
I call on the workers, peasants, revolutionary intellectuals, enlightened 
elements of the bourgeoisie and other enlightened 
persons of all colours in the world, whether white, black, yellow 
or brown, to unite to oppose the racial discrimination practised 
by U.S. imperialism and support the American Negroes in 
their struggle against racial discrimination. In the final analysis, 
national struggle is a matter of class struggle. Among the 
whites in the United States it is only the reactionary ruling 
circles who oppress the Negro people. They can in no way

represent the workers, farmers, revolutionary intellectuals and 
other enlightened persons who comprise the overwhelming majority 
of the white people. At present, it is the handful of imperialists 
headed by the United States, and their supporters, the 
reactionaries in different countries, who are oppressing, committing 
aggression against and menacing the overwhelming majority 
of the nations and peoples of the world. We are in the 
majority and they are in the minority. At most, they make up 
less than 10 per cent of the 3,000 million population of the 
world. I am firmly convinced that, with the support of more 
than 90 per cent of the people of the world, the American 
Negroes will be victorious in their just struggle. The evil system 
of colonialism and imperialism arose and throve with the enslavement 
of Negroes and the trade in Negroes, and it will 
surely come to its end with the complete emancipation of the 
black people.

5 
STATEMENT OPPOSING AGGRESSION AGAINST 
SOUTHERN VIETNAM AND SLAUGHTER OF ITS 
PEOPLE BY THE U.S.-NGO DINH DIEM CLIQUE 
August 29, 1963 
Recently, the reactionary Ngo Dinh Diem clique in south 
Vietnam has been intensifying its sanguinary suppression of 
Buddhists, students, intellectuals and the masses of the people. 
The Chinese people are deeply indignant at the monstrous 
crimes of the Ngo Dinh Diem clique and strongly condemn 
them. President Ho Chi Minh has issued a statement strongly 
protesting against the crimes of U.S. imperialism and the Diem 
clique. We the Chinese people whole-heartedly support President 
Ho Chi Minh¹s statement. 
U.S. imperialism and its lackey Ngo Dinh Diem have been 
following the policy of turning southern Vietnam into a U.S. 
colony, unleashing counter-revolutionary war and reinforcing 
their fascist dictatorship. This has compelled the people of 
various strata in southern Vietnam to unite on a broad scale 
and wage a resolute struggle against them. 
U.S. imperialism and the Diem clique now find themselves 
besieged by all the people of southern Vietnam against whom 
they have set themselves. No matter what inhuman weapons 
U.S. imperialism may use or what ruthless means of suppression 
the Diem clique may employ, that regime cannot escape 
Chairman Mao Tse-tung made this statement when receiving a delegation 
of the South Vietnam National Front for Liberation. ‹ Ed.

6 
its fate of total isolation and collapse, and U.S. imperialism will 
finally have to get out of southern Vietnam. 
Ngo Dinh Diem is a faithful lackey of U.S. imperialism. 
However, once a lackey has outlived his usefulness and becomes 
an encumbrance to the U.S. imperialist policy of aggression, 
the U.S. imperialists do not hesitate to replace him with 
another. The fate of Syngman Rhee in south Korea provides 
a precedent. A flunkey who allows himself to be led by the 
nose by U.S. imperialism will only end up in the same grave 
as his master. 
U.S. imperialism has violated the agreements reached at the 
first Geneva Conference by obstructing the reunification of 
Vietnam, conducting open armed aggression against southern 
Vietnam and engaging in so-called special warfare over a period 
of years. It has also violated the agreements of the second Geneva 
Conference by its flagrant intervention in Laos in an attempt 
to rekindle the civil war there. Apart from those who 
are deliberately deceiving the people and those who are utterly 
naive, no one will assert that a treaty can make U.S. imperialism 
lay down its butcher¹s knife and suddenly become a Buddha, 
or for that matter behave itself even a little better. 
The oppressed peoples and nations must not pin their hopes 
for liberation on the ³sensibleness² of imperialism and its 
lackeys. They will only triumph by strengthening their unity 
and persevering in their struggle. This is what the people of 
southern Vietnam are doing. 
In their just patriotic struggle against U.S. imperialism and 
the Diem clique the people of southern Vietnam have won 
major victories both politically and militarily. We the Chinese 
people firmly support their just struggle. 
I am convinced that through struggle they will attain the 
goal of liberating the southern part of Vietnam and contribute 
to the peaceful reunification of their fatherland.

It is my hope that the working class, the revolutionary people 
and progressives throughout the world will all stand by the 
people of southern Vietnam and, in response to President Ho 
Chi Minh¹s call, support the just struggle of the heroic people 
of southern Vietnam and oppose aggression and oppression by 
the counter-revolutionary U.S.-Diem clique, and thus help the 
people there save themselves from slaughter and achieve complete 
liberation.

8 
STATEMENT SUPPORTING THE PANAMANIAN 
PEOPLE¹S JUST PATRIOTIC STRUGGLE AGAINST 
U.S. IMPERIALISM 
January 12, 1964 
The struggle now being heroically waged by the people of 
Panama against U.S. aggression and in defence of their national 
sovereignty is a great and patriotic struggle. The Chinese 
people stand firmly on the side of the Panamanian people and 
fully support their just action in opposing the U.S. aggressors 
and demanding the recovery of sovereignty over the Panama 
Canal Zone. 
U.S. imperialism is the most ferocious enemy of the people 
of the world. 
Not only has it committed the grave crime of aggression 
against the Panamanian people and persistently plotted to 
strangle socialist Cuba, it has never ceased to plunder and oppress 
the people of all the Latin American countries and suppress 
their national-democratic revolutionary struggles. 
In Asia, U.S. imperialism has forcibly occupied China¹s 
Taiwan, converted the southern parts of Korea and of Vietnam 
into its colonies, kept Japan under its control and partial military 
occupation, undermined the peace, neutrality and independ- 
Chairman Mao Tse-tung made this statement to a Renmin Ribao (People¹s 
Daily) correspondent. ‹ Ed.

9 
ence of Laos, plotted to subvert the Royal Government of 
Cambodia, and carried out intervention and aggression against 
other Asian countries. More recently, it has decided to send a 
U.S. fleet into the Indian Ocean, menacing the security of the 
Southeast Asian countries. 
In Africa, U.S. imperialism is stepping up its neo-colonialist 
policies and actively seeking to replace the old colonialists, 
plunder and enslave the peoples of Africa, and undermine and 
stamp out their national-liberation movements. 
The policies of aggression and war of U.S. imperialism also 
seriously threaten the Soviet Union, China and the other socialist 
countries. Moreover, it is striving to promote its policy of 
³peaceful evolution² in the socialist countries in order to restore 
capitalism there and break up the socialist camp. 
Even towards its own allies in Western Europe, North America 
and Oceania U.S. imperialism follows the policy of the 
law of the jungle, trying to trample them underfoot. 
The aggressive plans of U.S. imperialism to dominate the 
whole world run in a continuous line from Truman, through 
Eisenhower and Kennedy, to Johnson. 
The people of the countries in the socialist camp should 
unite, the people of the countries in Asia, Africa and Latin 
America should unite, the people of all the continents should 
unite, all peace-loving countries should unite, and all countries 
subjected to U.S. aggression, control, intervention or bullying 
should unite, and so form the broadest united front to oppose 
the U.S. imperialist policies of aggression and war and to defend 
world peace. 
Riding roughshod everywhere, U.S. imperialism has made itself 
the enemy of the people of the world and has increasingly 
isolated itself. Those who refuse to be enslaved will never be

cowed by the atom bombs and hydrogen bombs in the hands 
of the U.S. imperialists. The raging tide of the people of the 
world against the U.S. aggressors is irresistible. Their struggle 
against U.S. imperialism and its lackeys will assuredly win 
still greater victories.

11 
STATEMENT SUPPORTING THE JAPANESE 
PEOPLE¹S JUST PATRIOTIC STRUGGLE AGAINST 
U.S. IMPERIALISM 
January 27, 1964 
The massive anti-U.S. demonstration by the Japanese people 
on January 26 constitutes a great patriotic movement. On behalf 
of the Chinese people, I wish to express deep respect for 
the heroic Japanese people. 
A large-scale mass movement has recently started throughout 
Japan to oppose the entry and stationing in Japan of U.S. F-105D 
aircraft carrying nuclear weapons and of nuclear submarines 
and to demand the dismantling of U.S. military bases, the withdrawal 
of U.S. armed forces, the return of Japan¹s territory of 
Okinawa, the abrogation of the Japanese-U.S. ³Security Treaty², 
etc. This reflects the will and aspirations of the entire Japanese 
people. The Chinese people whole-heartedly support the just 
struggle of the Japanese people. 
Ever since the end of World War II, Japan has been subjected 
to U.S. imperialist political, economic and military oppression. 
Not only have the U.S. imperialists oppressed the workers, 
peasants, students, intellectuals, urban petty bourgeoisie, 
religious circles and medium and small entrepreneurs of Japan, 
they have also brought many big Japanese entrepreneurs under 
Chairman Mao Tse-tung made this statement when receiving a group of 
Japanese friends. ‹ Ed.

their control, interfered in Japan¹s foreign policy and treated 
Japan as a dependency. U.S. imperialism is the most ferocious 
enemy of the Japanese nation. 
Japan is a great nation. It will certainly not allow U.S. imperialism 
to ride roughshod over it for long. The last few 
years have seen the constant broadening of the patriotic united 
front of all strata of the Japanese people against U.S. imperialist 
aggression, oppression and control. This is the surest 
guarantee of victory in their patriotic struggle against U.S. imperialism. 
The Chinese people are convinced that the Japanese 
people will be able to drive the U.S. imperialists from their 
soil and realize their aspirations for independence, democracy, 
peace and neutrality. 
The Chinese and Japanese peoples should unite, the people 
of various Asian countries should unite, all oppressed people 
and nations of the world should unite, all- peace-loving 
countries should unite, all countries and individuals subjected 
to U.S. imperialist aggression, control, intervention or bullying 
should unite and form a broad united front against U.S. imperialism 
to frustrate its-plans for aggression and war and to 
defend world peace. 
U.S. imperialism get out of Japan! Get out of the Western 
Pacific! Get out of Asia! Get out of Africa and Latin America! 
Get out of Europe and Oceania! Get out of all the countries 
and places subjected to U.S. aggression, control, intervention 
or bullying!

13 
STATEMENT SUPPORTING THE PEOPLE OF THE 
CONGO (L.) AGAINST U.S. AGGRESSION 
November 28, 1964 
The armed aggression of U.S. imperialism against the Congo 
(L.) is a very grave matter. 
The United States has all along attempted to control the 
Congo. It has used the United Nations forces to perpetrate 
every kind of villainy there. It murdered the Congolese national 
hero Lumumba and subverted the lawful Congolese Government. 
It imposed the puppet Tshombe on the Congolese 
people and dispatched mercenary troops to suppress the Congolese 
national-liberation movement. And now, in league with 
Belgium and Britain, it is carrying out direct armed intervention 
in the Congo. The purpose of U.S. imperialism is not only 
to control the Congo, but also once again to enmesh the whole 
of Africa ‹ particularly the newly independent African countries 
‹ this time in the toils of U.S. neo-colonialism. U.S. aggression 
has encountered heroic resistance from the Congolese 
people and aroused the indignation of the people of Africa 
and the whole world. 
U.S. imperialism is the common enemy of the people of the 
world. It is committing aggression against south Vietnam, intervening 
in Laos, menacing Cambodia and blustering about 
extending the war in Indo-China. It is thing by every means 
to strangle the Cuban revolution. It wants to turn West Germany 
and Japan into the two major U.S. nuclear bases. It has

ganged up with Britain in creating ³Malaysia² to menace Indonesia 
and other countries in Southeast Asia. It has occupied 
south Korea and the Chinese province of Taiwan. It dominates 
all Latin America. It plays the bully everywhere. U.S. 
imperialism has over-reached itself. Wherever it commits aggression, 
it puts a new noose around its neck. It is besieged 
ring upon ring by the people of the whole world. 
People of the Congo, you are not alone in your just struggle. 
The entire Chinese people are behind you. The people throughout 
the world opposing imperialism are behind you. The U.S. 
imperialists and reactionaries of all countries are paper tigers. 
The struggle of the Chinese people has proved this. The 
struggle of the Vietnamese people is proving it. The struggle 
of the Congolese people will surely prove this too. By strengthening 
national unity and persevering in protracted struggle, the 
Congolese people will certainly triumph, and U.S. imperialism 
will certainly be defeated. 
People of the world, unite and defeat the U.S. aggressors 
and all their running dogs! People of the world, be courageous, 
dare to fight, defy difficulties and advance wave upon wave. 
Then the whole world will belong to the people. Monsters of 
all kinds shall be destroyed.

15 
STATEMENT SUPPORTING THE 
DOMINICAN PEOPLE¹S RESISTANCE TO U.S. 
ARMED AGGRESSION 
May 12, 1965 
Recently, a coup d¹etat overthrowing the Cabral dictatorship 
of traitors took place in the Dominican Republic. The Johnson 
Administration of the United States has dispatched more than 
30,000 troops there to carry out sanguinary suppression. This 
is a grave act of provocation by U.S. imperialism against the 
Dominican people, against the people of Latin America and 
the whole world. 
The patriotic Dominican people are now waging a heroic 
fight against the U.S. aggressor and his lackeys. 
The Chinese people firmly support the Dominican people in 
their patriotic armed struggle against U.S. imperialism. I am 
convinced that the Dominican Republic, with the support of 
the people of the world, will win final victory in its patriotic 
struggle against U.S. imperialism so long as it relies on the 
broad masses of the people, unites all patriotic forces and persists 
in protracted struggle. 
U.S. imperialism has never ceased to subject Latin American 
countries to control, intervention, subversion and aggression. 
This time the U.S. government has abandoned all such deceptive 
phrases as ³the good neighbour policy² and ³the principle 
of non-intervention², and carried out naked intervention and

16 
aggression in the Dominican Republic. This has further revealed 
the true features of the U.S. imperialist gangsters. 
The United States is conducting its armed intervention in 
the Dominican Republic under the banner of ³defending freedom². 
What kind of ³freedom² is this? It is the freedom 
to use aeroplanes, warships and guns to slaughter the people 
of other countries. It is the freedom to seize the territory of 
other countries at will, the freedom to trample their sovereignty 
underfoot at will. It is the freedom of pirates to loot and kill. 
It is the freedom to tread every country and people under its 
heel. This is what the U.S. imperialists are now doing in the 
Dominican Republic, in Vietnam, in the Congo (L.) and in 
many other places. 
The United States is also conducting its armed intervention 
in the Dominican Republic under the banner of ³fighting communism². 
What U.S. imperialism means by ³fighting communism² 
is fighting all those who are unwilling to be the slaves 
of the United States, fighting all those who defend the independence, 
sovereignty and national dignity of their country, 
fighting all those who refuse to submit to U.S. imperialist aggression, 
control, intervention or bullying. This is what Hitler, 
Mussolini and Tojo did in the past. This is what U.S. imperialism 
is doing today on an even greater scale. 
In the eyes of U.S. imperialism, the United Nations, the 
Organization of American States and what not, are mere tools. 
It makes use of them when it needs them, and kicks them away 
when it does not. But it may still pick them up later if they 
happen to be useful again. Whether it uses them or kicks them 
away depends on which is more convenient for its aggressive 
purposes. 
The U.S. aggression against the Dominican Republic has enabled 
the Dominican people and all the other people of Latin 
America to see more dearly that in order to safeguard national

independence and state sovereignty, it is imperative to wage 
a tit-for-tat struggle against U.S. imperialism which is aggressive 
by its very nature. 
The U.S. armed intervention in the Dominican Republic has 
aroused a new wave of opposition to U.S. imperialism among 
the people of Latin America and the world. You, the heroic 
Dominican people, are definitely not alone in your struggle. 
You enjoy the support of all the other people of Latin America, 
the support of all the people of Asia, the support of all the 
people of Africa, the support of the people in the socialist camp, 
and indeed the support of the people of the whole world. 
The people in the socialist camp should unite, the people 
of the countries of Asia, Africa and Latin America should unite, 
the people of every continent should unite, all peace-loving 
countries should unite, all countries subjected to U.S. aggression, 
control, intervention or bullying should unite, and form the 
broadest united front to oppose the U.S. imperialist policies of 
aggression and war and to defend world peace. 
The struggle of the people of the world against U.S. imperialism 
is bound to triumph 
U.S. imperialism, the common enemy of the people of the 
world, is bound to fail!

1 2 3 
ABCDEmFo4 
GHIJKLMNVROPQ 
[`1234567, 89907-, 
=ab7-, cd7-, ef ( g ) 7- 
h2ijk7-lm4n5opqrp 
stquvhwx ] 
* 
abcdecd ( fg ) 
1964 hj1d 
1966 hj1d 
1967 hj2pqr 
kl: ( m ) 1050‹285 
00016 
1‹E‹669P




