

W O R K E R S O F A L L C O U N T R I E S, U N I T E !

>From Marx to Mao 
ML 
© Digital Reprints 
2006

RUSSIAN EDITION 
PUBLISHED BY DECISION 
OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE 
OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY 
OF THE SOVIET UNION 
(BOLSHEVIKS)

. p...ma puu .cex cm pa., coe.u...mec.! 
..CT.T.T ...KC.ó......C.ó...... .p. .K .K.(.) 
n.b. CTAlnH 
.....E... 
 
. . . . 
............... ............ ............ .......... 
. o c . . a ï 1 9 4 6

FOREIGN LANGUAGES PUBLISHING HOUSE 
M o s c o w ï 1 9 5 3 
E 
FROM MARX 
TO MAO 
 
NOT FOR 
COMMERCIAL 
DISTRIBUTION 
J. V. STALIN 
w o R k s 
VOLUME 
£ 
!(!& 
MARCH - OCTOBER


FROM MARX 
TO MAO 
 
NOT FOR 
COMMERCIAL 
DISTRIBUTION 
C O N T E N T S 
Page 
Preface . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . XIII 
1917 
THE SOVIETS OF WORKERSí AND SOLDIERSí 
DEPUTIES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 
THE WAR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4 
BIDDING FOR MINISTERIAL PORTFOLIOS . . . . 10 
CONDITIONS FOR THE VICTORY OF THE RUSSIAN 
REVOLUTION . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12 
ABOLITION OF NATIONAL DISABILITIES . . . . . 17 
EITHERóOR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 22 
AGAINST FEDERALISM. . . . . . . . . . . . 25 
TWO RESOLUTIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 
THE LAND TO THE PEASANTS . . . . . . . . 36 
MAY DAY. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39 
THE PROVISIONAL GOVERNMENT. Speech Delivered 
at a Meeting in Vasilyevsky Ostrov, April 18 (May 1), 
1917. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41 
THE CONFERENCE IN THE MARIINSKY PALACE . 46 
THE SEVENTH (APRIL) CONFERENCE OF THE 
R.S.D.L.P (BOLSHEVIKS), April 24-29, 1917 . . 51 
1. Speech in Support of Comrade Leninís Resolution 
on the Current Situation, April 24 . . . . . . 51

CONTENTS VIII 
2. Report on the National Question, April 29 . . 52 
3. Reply to the Discussion on the National Question, 
April 29. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58 
LAGGING BEHIND THE REVOLUTION . . . . . 61 
WHAT DID WE EXPECT FROM THE CONFERENCE? . 67 
THE MUNICIPAL ELECTION CAMPAIGN . . . . . 70 
YESTERDAY AND TODAY (Crisis of the Revolution) . 84 
AGAINST ISOLATED DEMONSTRATIONS . . . . . 92 
RESULTS OF THE PETROGRAD MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 95 
TO ALL THE TOILERS, TO ALL THE WORKERS AND 
SOLDIERS OF PETROGRAD . . . . . . . . 101 
AT THE DEMONSTRATION . . . . . . . . . . 105 
CLOSE THE RANKS! . . . . . . . . . . . . 110 
SPEECHES DELIVERED AT AN EMERGENCY CONFERENCE 
OF THE PETROGRAD ORGANIZATION OF 
THE R.S.D.L.P. (BOLSHEVIKS), July 16-20, 1917 . 114 
1. Report of the Central Committee on the July 
Events, July 16 . . . . . . . . . . . . 114 
2. Report on the Current Situation, July 16 . . . 121 
3. Replies to Written Questions, July 16 . . . . 129 
4. Reply to the Discussion, July 16 . . . . . . 131 
WHAT HAS HAPPENED? . . . . . . . . . . . 134 
VICTORY OF THE COUNTER-REVOLUTION . . . . 138 
THE VICTORY OF THE CADETS . . . . . . . . 142 
TO ALL THE TOILERS, TO ALL THE WORKERS AND 
SOLDIERS OF PETROGRAD . . . . . . . . 145 
TWO CONFERENCES. . . . . . . . . . . . . 153

CONTENTS IX 
THE NEW GOVERNMENT . . . . . . . . . . . 155 
THE CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY ELECTIONS . . . 158 
SPEECHES DELIVERED AT THE SIXTH CONGRESS 
OF THE R.S.D.L.P. (BOLSHEVIKS), July 26-August 
3, 1917. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 166 
l. Report of the Central Committee, July 27 . . . 166 
2. Reply to the Discussion, July 27 . . . . . . 179 
3. Report on the Political Situation, July 30 . . . 182 
4. Replies to Questions in Connection With the 
Report on the Political Situation, July 31 . . . 190 
5. Reply to the Discussion, July 31 . . . . . . 195 
6. Reply to Preobrazhensky on Clause 9 of the Resolution 
ìOn the Political Situation,î August 3 . . . 199 
WHAT DO THE CAPITALISTS WANT? . . . . . . 201 
AGAINST THE MOSCOW CONFERENCE . . . . . 207 
MORE ON THE SUBJECT OF STOCKHOLM. . . . . 211 
WHITHER THE MOSCOW CONFERENCE? . . . . . 215 
COUNTER-REVOLUTION AND THE PEOPLES OF 
RUSSIA . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 221 
TWO COURSES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 226 
OUTCOME OF THE MOSCOW CONFERENCE . . . 231 
THE TRUTH ABOUT OUR DEFEAT AT THE FRONT . 234 
THE CAUSES OF THE JULY DEFEAT AT THE FRONT . 238 
WHO REALLY IS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE DEFEAT 
AT THE FRONT? . . . . . . . . . . . . . 245 
AMERICAN BILLIONS . . . . . . . . . . . . 250 
THIS IS ELECTION DAY . . . . . . . . . . . 254 
A PERIOD OF PROVOCATION . . . . . . . . . 260 
DIVISION OF LABOUR IN THE ìSOCIALIST-REVOLUTIONARYî 
PARTY . . . . . . . . . . . . 263

CONTENTS X
YELLOW ALLIANCE . . . . . . . . . . . . . 267 
EITHERóOR . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 271 
WE DEMAND! . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 277 
THE CONSPIRACY CONTINUES . . . . . . . . 282 
AGAINST COMPROMISE WITH THE BOURGEOISIE . 287 
THE CRISIS AND THE DIRECTORY . . . . . . . 289 
THEY WILL NOT SWERVE FROM THEIR PATH . . 293 
THE BREAK WITH THE CADETS . . . . . . . . 296 
THE SECOND WAVE . . . . . . . . . . . . . 301 
FOREIGNERS AND THE KORNILOV CONSPIRACY . 308 
THE DEMOCRATIC CONFERENCE . . . . . . . 311 
TWO LINES . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 316 
ALL POWER TO THE SOVIETS! . . . . . . . . 320 
THE REVOLUTIONARY FRONT . . . . . . . . . 323 
FORGING CHAINS . . . . . . . . . . . . . 328 
A GOVERNMENT OF BOURGEOIS DICTATORSHIP . 332 
COMMENTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 336 
The Railway Strike and the Democratic Bankrupts 336 
The Russian Peasants and the Party of Numskulls 338 
CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE WORKERS . . . . . . 340 
YOU WILL WAIT IN VAIN! . . . . . . . . . . 343 
COMMENTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 347 
The Party of ìIndeterminatesî and the Russian Soldiers 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 347 
Conspirators in Power . . . . . . . . . . . 349

CONTENTS XI 
A PAPER COALITION . . . . . . . . . . . . 351 
COMMENTS . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 354 
Starvation in the Countryside . . . . . . . . . 354 
Starvation in the Factories . . . . . . . . . . 355 
SELF-CHASTISEMENT . . . . . . . . . . . . 358 
THE PLOT AGAINST THE REVOLUTION . . . . . 361 
WHO IS TORPEDOING THE CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY? 383 
THE COUNTER-REVOLUTION IS MOBILIZINGóPREPARE 
TO RESIST! . . . . . . . . . . . . 386 
WHO NEEDS THE PRE-PARLIAMENT? . . . . . 389 
SOVIET POWER . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 392 
A STUDY IN BRAZENNESS . . . . . . . . . . 397 
BLACKLEGS OF THE REVOLUTION . . . . . . 401 
SPEECH AT A MEETING OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE, 
October 16, 1917 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 407 
ìSTRONG BULLS OF BASHAN HAVE BESET ME ROUNDî 409 
WHAT DO WE NEED? . . . . . . . . . . . . 414 
Notes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 418 
Biographical Chronicle (March-October 1917) . . . . 440


PREFACE 
The third volume contains the major works of 
J. V. Stalin relating to the preparatory period of the 
Great Socialist Revolution of October 1917. 
J. V. Stalin worked in 1917 in close fellowship with 
V. I. Lenin, directing the Bolshevik Party and the working 
class in its struggle for the conquest of governmental 
power. 
An important place in the works contained in the 
volume is given to the question of Bolshevik leadership 
of the masses at the time of the June and July demonstrations 
and of the elections to the Petrograd district and city 
Dumas (the appeal ìTo All the Toilers, to All the Workers 
and Soldiers of Petrograd,î and the articles ìAgainst 
Isolated Demonstrations,î ìThe Municipal Election 
Campaign,î ìWhat Has Happened?î ìClose the Ranks!î 
ìThis Is Election Day,î etc.), at the time of the action 
to defeat Kornilov's counter-revolutionary attempt (ìWe 
Demand!î ìThe Conspiracy Continues,î ìForeigners 
and the Kornilov Conspiracy,î etc.), and in the period 
of direct preparation for the armed uprising, September- 
October 1917 (ìThe Democratic Conference,î ìTwo Lines,î 
You Will Wait in Vain!î ìThe Counter-revolution Is

PREFACE XIV 
MobilizingóPrepare to Resist!î ìForging Chains,î 
ìA Study in Brazenness,î etc.). 
A number of the works in the volume deal with the 
struggle of the Party to convert the Soviets from organs 
for the mobilization of the masses into organs of revolt 
and of proletarian rule (reports at the Emergency Conference 
of the Petrograd organization of the R.S.D.L.P.(B.) 
and at the Sixth Congress of the Party, and the articles 
ìAll Power to the Soviets!î ìSoviet Power,î ìBlacklegs 
of the Revolution,î ìWhat Do We Need?î). 
Most of the articles in this volume were reprinted 
in the book, On the Road to October, published in 1925 
in two editions. They were first printed in the Central 
Organ of the Bolshevik Party, Pravda, which also appeared 
under other namesóProletary, Rabochy, Rabochy 
Putóas well as in the Bolshevik papers, Soldatskaya 
Pravda, Proletarskoye Delo, Rabochy i Soldat, etc. 
Marx-Engels-Lenin Institute 
of the C.C., C.P.S.U.(B.)

1917 
MARCH- OCTOBER


THE SOVIETS OF WORKERSí 
AND SOLDIERSí DEPUTIES 
The chariot of the Russian revolution is advancing 
with lightning speed. The detachments of revolutionary 
militants are everywhere growing and spreading. The 
pillars of the old power are tottering on their foundations 
and crumbling. Now, as always, Petrograd is in 
the forefront. Behind it, stumbling at times, trail the 
immense provinces. 
The forces of the old power are crumbling, but they 
are not yet destroyed. They are only lying low, waiting 
for a favourable moment to raise their head and fling 
themselves on free Russia. Glance around and you will 
see that the sinister work of the dark forces is going on 
incessantly. . . . 
The rights won must be upheld so as to destroy 
completely the old forces and, in conjunction with the 
provinces, further advance the Russian revolutionó 
such should be the next immediate task of the proletariat 
of the capital. 
But how is this to be done? 
What is needed to achieve this? 
In order to shatter the old power a temporary alliance 
between the insurrectionary workers and soldiers was 
enough For it is self-evident that the strength of the

J. V. S T A L I N 2
Russian revolution lies in an alliance between the workers 
and the peasants clad in soldierís uniform. 
But in order to preserve the rights achieved and to 
develop further the revolution, a temporary alliance between 
the workers and soldiers is far from enough. 
For this it is necessary that the alliance should be 
made conscious and secure, lasting and stable, sufficiently 
stable to withstand the provocative assaults of the counter-
revolutionaries. For it is clear to all that the guarantee 
of the final victory of the Russian revolution lies in 
consolidating the alliance between the revolutionary 
workers and the revolutionary soldiers. 
The organs of this alliance are the Soviets of Workersí 
and Soldiersí Deputies. 
And the more closely these Soviets are welded together 
and the more strongly they are organized, the 
more effective will be the revolutionary power of the 
revolutionary people which they express, and the more 
reliable will be the guarantees against counter-revolution. 
The revolutionary Social-Democrats must work to 
consolidate these Soviets, form them everywhere, and 
link them together under a Central Soviet of Workersí 
and Soldiersí Deputies as the organ of revolutionary 
power of the people. 
Workers, close your ranks and rally around the 
Russian Social-Democratic Labour Party! 
Peasants, organize in peasant unions and rally around 
the revolutionary proletariat, the leader of the Russian 
revolution! 
Soldiers, organize in unions of your own and gather 
around the Russian people, the only true ally of the 
Russian revolutionary army!

THE SOVIETS OF WORKERSí AND SOLDIERSí DEPUTIES 3 
Workers, peasants and soldiers, unite everywhere 
in Soviets of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies, as organs 
of alliance and power of the revolutionary forces of 
Russia! 
Therein lies the guarantee of complete victory over 
the dark forces of old Russia. 
Therein lies the guarantee that the fundamental 
demands of the Russian people will be realized: land 
for the peasants, protection of labour for the workers, 
and a democratic republic for all the citizens of Russia! 
Pravda, No. 8, 
March 14, 1917 
Signed: K. Stalin

THE WAR 
The other day General Kornilov informed the Petrograd 
Soviet of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies 
that the Germans were planning an offensive against 
Russia. 
Rodzyanko and Guchkov took advantage of the 
opportunity to appeal to the army and the people to 
prepare to fight the war to a finish. 
And the bourgeois press sounded the alarm: ìLiberty 
is in danger! Long live the war!î Moreover, a section 
of the Russian revolutionary democracy took a hand 
in raising the alarm. . . . 
To listen to the alarmists, one might think that 
the situation of Russia today resembles that of France 
in 1792, when the reactionary monarchs of Central and 
Eastern Europe formed an alliance against republican 
France with the object of restoring the old regime in 
that country. 
And if the external situation of Russia today really 
did correspond to that of France in 1792, if we really 
were faced with a specific coalition of counter-revolutionary 
monarchs whose specific purpose it was to restore 
the old regime in Russia, there can be no doubt that

THE WAR 5 
the Social-Democrats, like the French revolutionaries 
of that period, would rise up as one man in defence of 
liberty. For it is self-evident that liberty won at the 
price of blood must be safeguarded by force of arms 
against all counter-revolutionary assaults, from whatever 
quarter they may proceed. 
But is this really the case? 
The war of 1792 was a dynastic war fought by absolute 
feudal monarchs against republican France, because 
they were terrified of the revolutionary conflagration 
in that country. The aim of the war was to extinguish 
the conflagration, restore the old order in 
France, and thus guarantee the scared monarchs against 
the spread of the revolutionary contagion to their 
own countries. It was for this reason that the French 
revolutionaries fought the armies of the monarchs so 
heroically. 
But this is not the case with the present war. The 
present war is an imperialist war. Its principal aim is 
the seizure (annexation) of foreign, chiefly agrarian, territories 
by capitalistically developed states. The latter 
need new markets, convenient communications with 
these markets, raw materials and mineral wealth, and 
they endeavour to secure them everywhere, regardless 
of the internal regimes in the countries they seek to 
annex. 
This explains why, generally speaking, the present 
war does not, and cannot, lead necessarily to interference 
in the internal affairs of the territories annexed, 
in the sense of restoring their old regimes. 
And precisely for this reason the present situation 
of Russia provides no warrant for sounding the alarm

J. V. S T A L I N 6
and proclaiming: ìLiberty is in danger! Long live the 
war!î 
It would be truer to say that the present situation 
of Russia resembles that of the France of 1914, the 
France of the time of the outbreak of the war, of the 
time when war between Germany and France had become 
inevitable. 
Just as in the bourgeois press of Russia today, so 
in the bourgeois camp of France at that time the alarm 
was sounded: ìThe Republic is in danger! Fight the 
Germans!î 
And just as in France at that time the alarm 
spread to many of the Socialists (Guesde, Sembat, 
etc.), so now in Russia quite a number of Socialists are 
following in the footsteps of the bourgeois bellmen of 
ìrevolutionary defence.î 
The subsequent course of events in France showed that 
it was a false alarm, and that the cries about liberty and 
the Republic were a screen to cover up the fact that the 
French imperialists were lusting after Alsace-Lorraine 
and Westphalia. 
We are profoundly convinced that the course of 
events in Russia will reveal the utter falsity of 
the immoderate howling that ìliberty is in dangerî: 
the ìpatrioticî smoke screen will disperse, and people 
will see for themselves that what the Russian 
imperialists are really after isóThe Straits and Persia. 
. . . 
The behaviour of Guesde, Sembat and their like was 
duly and authoritatively assessed in the anti-war resolutions 
of the Zimmerwald and Kienthal Socialist Congresses 
(1915-16).1

THE WAR 7 
Subsequent events fully proved the correctness 
and fruitfulness of the Zimmerwald and Kienthal 
theses. 
It would be deplorable if the Russian revolutionary 
democracy, which was able to overthrow the detested 
tsarist regime, were to succumb to the false alarm raised 
by the imperialist bourgeoisie and repeat the mistakes 
of Guesde and Sembat. . . . 
What should be our attitude, as a party, to the present 
war? 
What are the practical ways and means capable of 
leading to the speediest termination of the war? 
First of all, it is unquestionable that the stark slogan, 
ìDown with the war!î is absolutely unsuitable as 
a practical means, because, since it does not go beyond 
propaganda of the idea of peace in general, it does not 
and cannot provide anything capable of exerting practical 
influence on the belligerent forces to compel them 
to stop the war. 
Further, one cannot but welcome yesterdayís appeal 
of the Petrograd Soviet of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies 
to the peoples of the world, urging them to compel 
their respective governments to stop the slaughter. 
This appeal, if it reaches the broad masses, will undoubtedly 
bring back hundreds and thousands of workers 
to the forgotten sloganóìWorkers of all countries, 
Unite!î It must be observed, nevertheless, that it does 
not lead directly to the goal. For even assuming that 
the appeal becomes widely known among the peoples 
of the warring countries, it is hard to believe that they 
would act on it, seeing that they have not yet realized 
the predatory nature of the present war and its annexa

J. V. S T A L I N 8
tionist aims. We say nothing of the fact that, since the 
appeal makes the ìcessation of the terrible slaughterî 
dependent upon the preliminary overthrow of the ìsemiabsolute 
regimeî in Germany, it actually postpones 
the ìcessation of the terrible slaughterî indefinitely, 
and thereby tends to espouse the position of a ìwar to 
a finishî; for no one can say exactly when the German 
people will succeed in overthrowing the ìsemi-absolute 
regime,î or whether they will succeed at all in the near 
future. . . . 
What, then, is the solution? 
The solution is to bring pressure on the Provisional 
Government to make it declare its consent to start peace 
negotiations immediately. 
The workers, soldiers and peasants must arrange 
meetings and demonstrations and demand that the Provisional 
Government shall come out openly and publicly 
in an effort to induce all the belligerent powers to start 
peace negotiations immediately, on the basis of recognition 
of the right of nations to self-determination. 
Only then will the slogan ìDown with the war!î 
not run the risk of being transformed into empty and 
meaningless pacifism; only then will it be capable of 
developing into a mighty political campaign which will 
unmask the imperialists and disclose the actual motives 
for the present war. 
For even assuming that one of the sides refuses to 
negotiate on a given basisóeven this refusal, that is, 
unwillingness to renounce annexationist ambitions, will 
objectively serve as a means of speeding the cessation 
of the ìterrible slaughter,î for then the peoples will 
be able to see for themselves the predatory character of

THE WAR 9 
the war and the bloodstained countenance of the imperialist 
groups in whose rapacious interests they are sacrificing 
the lives of their sons. 
But unmasking the imperialists and opening the 
eyes of the masses to the real motives for the present war 
actually is declaring war on war and rendering the present 
war impossible. 
Pravda, No. 10, 
March 16, 1917 
Signed: K. Stalin

BIDDING FOR MINISTERIAL PORTFOLIOS 
A few days ago resolutions on the Provisional Government, 
on the war, and on unity passed by the Yedinstvo 
group2 were published in the press. 
This is the Plekhanov-Buryanov group, a ìdefencistî 
group 
To understand the character of this group, it is enough 
to know that in its opinion: 
1) ìThe necessary democratic control over the actions of the 
Provisional Government can best be achieved by the participation 
of the working-class democracy in the Provisional Governmentî; 
2) ìThe proletariat must continue the warîóamong other 
reasons, in order ìto deliver Europe from the menace of Austro- 
German reaction.î 
In brief, what they are demanding of the workers is: 
Send your hostages, gentlemen, into the Guchkov- 
Milyukov Provisional Government and be so kind as 
to continue the war foróthe seizure of Constantinople! 
That is the slogan of the Plekhanov-Buryanov group. 
And, after that, this group has the hardihood to 
appeal to the Russian Social-Democratic Labour Party 
to unite with it!

BIDDING FOR MINISTERIAL PORTFOLIOS 11 
The worthies of the Yedinstvo group forget that the 
Russian Social-Democratic Labour Party stands by the 
Zimmerwald-Kienthal resolutions, which repudiate both 
defencism and participation in the present government, 
even if it is a provisional one (not to be confused with 
a revolutionary provisional government!). 
They fail to realize that Zimmerwald and Kienthal 
were a repudiation of Guesde and Sembat, and, conversely, 
that unity with Guchkov and Milyukov precludes 
unity with the Russian Social-Democratic Labour 
Party. . . . 
They overlooked the fact that for a long time already 
Liebknecht and Scheidemann have not been living 
together, and cannot live together, in one party. . . . 
No, sirs, you have addressed your unity appeal to 
the wrong quarter! 
One may, of course, make a bid for Ministerial portfolios, 
one may unite with Milyukov and Guchkov for 
the purpose ofóìcontinuing the warî and so on. All this 
is a matter of taste. But what has it got to do with the 
Russian Social-Democratic Party, and why unite with it? 
No, sirs, go your way! 
Pravda, No. 11, 
March 17, 1917 
Unsigned

CONDITIONS FOR THE VICTORY 
OF THE RUSSIAN REVOLUTION 
The revolution is on the march. From Petrograd, 
where it started, it is spreading to the provinces and 
is gradually embracing all the boundless expanses of 
Russia. More, from political questions it is inevitably 
passing to social questions, to the question of 
improving the lot of the workers and peasants, thereby 
deepening and sharpening the present crisis. 
All this cannot but arouse anxiety among definite 
circles of property-owning Russia. Tsarist-landlord reaction 
is raising its head. The imperialist clique are sounding 
the alarm. The financial bourgeoisie are extending 
a hand to the obsolescent feudal aristocracy with a view 
to joint organization of counter-revolution. Today they 
are still weak and irresolute, but tomorrow they may 
grow stronger and mobilize against the revolution. At 
all events, they are carrying on their sinister work incessantly, 
rallying forces from all sections of the population, 
not excluding the army. . . . 
How can the incipient counter-revolution be curbed? 
What conditions are necessary for the victory of 
the Russian revolution? 
It is one of the peculiarities of our revolution that 
to this day its base is Petrograd. The clashes and shots,

CONDITIONS FOR THE VICTORY OF THE RUSSIAN REVOLUTION 13 
the barricades and casualties, the struggle and victory 
took place chiefly in Petrograd and its environs (Kronstadt, 
etc.). The provinces have confined themselves 
to accepting the fruits of victory and expressing confidence 
in the Provisional Government. 
A reflection of this fact is that dual power, that 
actual division of power between the Provisional Government 
and the Petrograd Soviet of Workersí and Soldiersí 
Deputies, which is the cause of so much anxiety to the 
hirelings of counter-revolution. On the one hand, the 
Petrograd Soviet of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies, 
which is an organ of revolutionary struggle of the 
workers and soldiers, and, on the other, the Provisional 
Government, which is an organ of the moderate 
bourgeoisie, who are scared by the ìexcessesî of the 
revolution and have found a prop in the inertia of the 
provincesósuch is the picture. 
Therein lies the weakness of the revolution, because 
such a state of affairs perpetuates the isolation of the provinces 
from the capital, the lack of contact between them. 
But, as the revolution goes deeper, the provinces too 
are being revolutionized. Soviets of Workersí Deputies 
are being formed in the localities. The peasants are being 
drawn into the movement and are organizing their 
Own unions The army is becoming democratized and 
soldiersí unions are being organized in the military units. 
The inertia of the provinces is receding into the past. 
Thus the ground is trembling under the feet of the 
Provisional Government. 
At the same time, the Petrograd Soviet of Workersí 
Deputies is also becoming inadequate for the new situation.

J. V. S T A L I N 14 
What is needed is an all-Russian organ of revolutionary 
struggle of the democracy of all Russia, one 
authoritative enough to weld together the democracy of the 
capital and the provinces and to transform itself at the 
required moment from an organ of revolutionary struggle 
of the people into an organ of revolutionary power, which 
will mobilize all the vital forces of the people against 
counter-revolution. 
Only an All-Russian Soviet of Workersí, Soldiersí 
and Peasantsí Deputies can be such an organ. 
This is the first condition for the victory of the 
Russian revolution. 
Further, along with its bad sides, the war, like everything 
in life, has a good side, which is that by mobilizing 
practically the whole adult population of Russia, 
it has given the army the character of a peopleís army, 
and has thus facilitated the work of uniting the soldiers 
with the insurrectionary workers. This, in fact, explains 
the comparative ease with which the revolution broke 
out and triumphed in our country. 
But the army is mobile and fluid, particularly owing 
to its constant movements from one place to another 
in conformity with the requirements of war. The army 
cannot remain permanently in one place and protect 
the revolution from counter-revolution. Consequently, 
another armed force is needed, an army of armed workers 
who are naturally connected with the centres of the 
revolutionary movement. And if it is true that a revolution 
cannot win without an armed force that is ready 
to serve it at all times, then our revolution too must 
have its own forceóa workersí guard vitally bound up 
with the cause of the revolution.

CONDITIONS FOR THE VICTORY OF THE RUSSIAN REVOLUTION 15 
Thus a second condition for the victory of the revolution 
is the immediate arming of the workersóa workersí 
guard. 
A characteristic feature of the revolutionary movements, 
in France for example, was the indubitable fact that 
the provisional governments there usually arose on the 
barricades, and were therefore revolutionary, or at any 
rate more revolutionary than the constituent assemblies 
they subsequently convoked, which usually met after 
the ìtranquilizationî of the country. This, indeed, 
explains why the more experienced revolutionaries of 
those times tried to get their program carried through 
with the help of a revolutionary government, and before 
the convocation of a constituent assembly, by delaying 
its convocation. Their idea was to confront the constituent 
assembly with already accomplished reforms. 
That is not the case in our country. Our Provisional 
Government arose not on the barricades, but near the 
barricades. That is why it is not revolutionaryóit is 
only being dragged along in the tail of the revolution, 
unwillingly and getting in its way. And judging from 
the fact that the revolution i s growing ever more 
profound, i s putting forward social demandsóthe 
eight-hour day and confiscation of the landóand is 
revolutionizing the provinces, it may be confidently 
said that the future Popular Constituent Assembly will 
be much more democratic than the present Provisional 
Government, which was elected by the Duma of June 
the Third. 
Moreover, it is to be feared that the Provisional 
Government, scared as it is by the sweep of the revolution 
and imbued with imperialist tendencies, may, in

J. V. S T A L I N 16 
certain political circumstances, serve as a ìlawfulî shield 
and screen for the counter-revolution that is organizing. 
The convocation of a Constituent Assembly should 
therefore not be delayed under any circumstances. 
In view of this, it is necessary to convene a Constituent 
Assembly as speedily as possible, as the only institution 
which will enjoy authority in the eyes of all sections 
of society and be capable of crowning the work 
of the revolution, thereby clipping the wings of the 
rising counter-revolution. 
Thus a third condition for the victory of the revolution 
is the speedy convocation of a Constituent Assembly. 
A general condition for all these necessary measures 
is the opening of peace negotiations as speedily as possible 
and the termination of this inhuman war, because 
continuation of the war, with the financial, economic 
and food crisis it brings in its train, is that submerged 
reef on which the ship of revolution may be wrecked. 
Pravda, No. 12, 
March 18, 1917 
Signed: K. Stalin

ABOLITION OF NATIONAL DISABILITIES 
One of the ulcers that disgraced the old Russia was 
national oppression. 
Religious and national persecution, forcible Russification 
of the ìalienî peoples, suppression of nationalcultural 
institutions, denial of the franchise, denial of 
liberty of movement, incitement of nationality against 
nationality, pogroms and massacresósuch was the national 
oppression of shameful memory. 
How can national oppression be eliminated? 
The social basis of national oppression, the force 
which animates it, is the obsolescent landed aristocracy. 
And the nearer the latter is to power and the firmer it 
grasps it, the more severe is national oppression and the 
more revolting are its forms. 
In the old Russia, when the old feudal landed aristocracy 
was in power, national oppression operated to the 
limit, not infrequently taking the form of pogroms (of 
Jews) and massacres (Armenian-Tatar). 
In England, where the landed aristocracy (the landlords) 
share power with the bourgeoisie and have long 
since ceased to exercise undivided rule, national oppression 
is milder, less inhumanóif, of course, we disregard

J. V. S T A L I N 18 
the fact that in the course of this war, when power has 
passed into the hands of the landlords, national oppression 
has become much more severe (persecution of the 
Irish, the Indians). 
And in Switzerland and North America, where landlordism 
has never existed and the bourgeoisie enjoys 
undivided power, the nationalities develop more or less 
freely, and, generally speaking, there is practically no 
soil for national oppression. 
This is to be explained chiefly by the fact that, owing 
to its very position, the landed aristocracy is (cannot 
but be!) the most determined and implacable foe of all 
liberty, national liberty included; that liberty in general, 
and national liberty in particular, undermines (cannot 
but undermine!) the very foundations of the political 
rule of the landed aristocracy. 
Thus the way to put an end to national oppression 
and to create the actual conditions necessary for 
national liberty is to drive the feudal aristocracy 
from the political stage, to wrest the power from its 
hands. 
Inasmuch as the Russian revolution has triumphed, 
it has already created these actual conditions, having 
overthrown the power of the feudal serfowners and established 
liberty. 
What is now necessary is: 
1) to define the rights of the nationalities emancipated 
from oppression, and 
2) to confirm them by legislation. 
This is the soil from which sprang the Provisional 
Governmentís decree on the abolition of religious and 
national disabilities.

ABOLITION OF NATIONAL DISABILITIES 19 
Spurred by the growth of the revolution, the Provisional 
Government was bound to take this first step 
towards the emancipation of the peoples of Russia; and 
it did take it. 
The decree amounts in general substance to the 
abolition of restrictions on the rights of citizens of non- 
Russian nationality and not belonging to the Orthodox 
Church in respect to: 1) settlement, domicile and 
movement; 2) acquisition of property rights, etc.; 
3) engaging in any occupation, in trade, etc.; 4) participation 
in joint-stock and other societies; 5) entering 
the government service, etc.; 6) enrolling in educational 
institutions; 7) use of languages and dialects 
other than Russian in the transaction of the affairs 
of private associations, in tuition in private educational 
establishments of all kinds, and in commercial 
accountancy. 
Such is the Provisional Governmentís decree. 
The peoples of Russia who were hitherto under suspicion 
may now breathe freely and feel they are citizens 
of Russia. 
This is all very good. 
But it would be an unpardonable mistake to think 
that this decree is sufficient to guarantee national liberty, 
that emancipation from national oppression is already 
fully accomplished. 
In the first place, the decree does not establish national 
equality in respect to language. The last clause 
of the decree speaks of the right to use languages other 
than Russian in the transaction of the affairs of private 
associations and in tuition in private educational establishments. 
But what about the regions with compact

J. V. S T A L I N 20 
majorities of non-Russian citizens whose language is 
not Russian (Transcaucasia, Turkestan, the Ukraine, 
Lithuania, etc.)? There is no doubt that they will have 
(must have!) their parliaments, and hence will have 
ìaffairsî (by no means ìprivateî!) and ìtuitionî in 
educational establishments (not only ìprivateî!)óand 
all this, of course, not only in Russian, but also in 
the local languages. Is it the idea of the Provisional 
Government to proclaim Russian the state language 
and to deprive these regions of the right to conduct 
ìaffairsî and ìtuitionî in their native languages in their, 
by no means ìprivate,î institutions? Apparently, it is. 
But who but simpletons can believe that this signifies 
complete equalization of the rights of nations, about 
which the bourgeois gossips of Rech3 and Dyen4 
shout from all the housetops and cry at all the crossroads? 
Who can fail to realize that this means 
legitimizing inequality of nations in respect to language? 
Furthermore, whoever wants to establish real national 
equality cannot confine himself to the negative 
measure of abolishing disabilitiesóhe must proceed from 
the abolition of disabilities to the adoption of a positive 
program which will guarantee the elimination of 
national oppression. 
It is therefore necessary to proclaim: 
1) political autonomy (not federation!) for regions 
representing integral economic territories possessing 
a specific way of life and populations of a specific national 
composition, with the right to conduct ìaffairsî and 
ìtuitionî in their own languages;

ABOLITION OF NATIONAL DISABILITIES 21 
2) the right of self-determination for such nations 
as cannot, for one reason or another, remain within the 
framework of the integral state. 
This is the way towards the real abolition of national 
oppression and towards guaranteeing the nationalities 
the maximum liberty possible under capitalism. 
Pravda, No. 17, 
March 25, 1917 
Signed: K. Stalin

EITHERóOR 
In the interview he gave on March 23, Mr. Milyukov, 
Minister of Foreign Affairs, outlined his ìprogramî 
on the aims of the present war. Our readers will know 
from yesterdayís Pravda5 that these aims are imperialistic: 
seizure of Constantinople, seizure of Armenia, 
partition of Austria and Turkey, seizure of Northern 
Persia. 
It appears that the Russian soldiers are shedding 
their blood on the battlefields not in ìdefence 
of the fatherland,î and not ìfor freedom,î as the venal 
bourgeois press assures us, but for the seizure of foreign 
territories in the interests of a handful of imperialists. 
That, at least, is what Mr. Milyukov says. 
In whose name does Mr. Milyukov say all this so 
frankly and so publicly? 
Not, of course, in the name of the Russian people. 
Because the Russian peopleóthe Russian workers, peasants 
and soldiersóare opposed to the seizure of foreign 
territories, opposed to the violation of nations. This is 
eloquently attested by the ìappealî of the Petrograd

EITHERóOR 23 
Soviet of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies, the spokesman 
of the will of the Russian people. 
Whose opinion, then, is Mr. Milyukov expressing? 
Can it be the opinion of the Provisional Government 
as a whole? 
But here is what yesterdayís Vecherneye Vremya6 had 
to say about it: 
ìIn connection with the interview given by Foreign Minister 
Milyukov published in the Petrograd papers on March 23, 
Minister of Justice Kerensky has authorized the Press Information 
Bureau of the Ministry of Justice to state that the exposition 
it contained of the aims of Russian foreign policy in the present war 
is the personal opinion of Milyukov and does not represent the views 
of the Provisional Government.î 
Thus, if Kerensky is to be believed, Mr. Milyukov 
does not express the opinion of the Provisional Government 
on the cardinal question of the war aims. 
In brief, when Foreign Minister Milyukov told the 
world that the aims of the present war were annexationist, 
he went not only against the will of the Russian 
people, but also against the Provisional Government, 
of which he is a member. 
In the days of tsardom Mr. Milyukov advocated 
the responsibility of Ministers to the people. We agree 
with him that Ministers should be accountable and 
responsible to the people. We ask: does Mr. Milyukov 
still recognize the principle of the responsibility 
of Ministers? And i f he does, why does he not 
resign? 
Or perhaps Kerenskyís statement was notóaccurate?

J. V. S T A L I N 24 
Either one thing or the other: 
Either Kerenskyís statement was untrue, in which 
case the revolutionary people must call the Provisional 
Government to order and compel it to recognize its 
will. 
Or Kerensky is right, in which case Mr. Milyukov has 
no place in the Provisional Governmentóhe must resign. 
There can be no middle way. 
Pravda, No. 18, 
March 26, 1917 
Editorial

AGAINST FEDERALISM 
Delo Naroda, 7 No. 5, carried an article entitled 
ìRussiaóa Union of Regions.î It recommends nothing 
more nor less than the conversion of Russia into a ìunion 
of regions,î a ìfederal state.î Listen to this: 
ìBe it declared that the federal state of Russia assumes the 
attributes of sovereignty vested in the various regions (Little 
Russia, Georgia, Siberia, Turkestan, etc.). . . . But let it 
grant the various regions internal sovereignty. And let the forthcoming 
Constituent Assembly establish a Russian Union of 
Regions.î 
The author of the article (Jos. Okulich) explains 
this in the following manner: 
ìLet there be instituted a single Russian army, a single currency, 
a single foreign policy, a single supreme court. But 
let the various regions of the single state be free to build their 
new life independently. If already in 1776 the Americans . . . 
created a ëUnited Statesí by means of a treaty of union, why 
should we in 1917 be incapable of creating a firm union of 
regions?î 
So says Delo Naroda. 
One has to admit that the article is in many respects 
interesting and, at any rate, original. Intriguing,

J. V. S T A L I N 26 
too, is the solemnity of its tone, its ìmanifestoî 
style, so to speak (ìbe it declared,î ìlet there be institutedî!). 
For all that, it must be observed that in general 
it is a peculiar piece of muddle-headedness. And 
the muddle is due at bottom to its more than frivolous 
treatment of the constitutional history of the 
United States of America (as well as of Switzerland 
and Canada). 
What does this history tell us? 
In 1776, the United States was not a federation, but 
a confederation of what until then were independent 
colonies, or states. That is, there were independent 
colonies, but later, in order to protect their common 
interests against their enemies, chiefly external, they 
concluded an alliance (confederation), without, however, 
ceasing to be fully independent state units. In the 1900ís 
a crucial change took place in the political life of the 
country: the Northern states demanded a firmer and 
closer political connection between the states, in opposition 
to the Southern states, which protested against 
ìcentralismî and stood up for the old system. The ìCivil 
Warî broke out and resulted in the Northern states 
gaining the upper hand. A federation was established in 
America, that is, a union of sovereign states which 
shared power with the federal (central) government. 
But this system did not last long. Federation proved to 
be as much a transitional measure as confederation. The 
struggle between the states and the central government 
continued unceasingly, dual government became intolerable, 
and in the course of its further evolution the 
United States was transformed from a federation into

AGAINST FEDERALISM 27 
a unitary (integral) state, with uniform constitutional 
provisions and the limited autonomy (not governmental, 
but political-administrative) permitted to the states by 
these provisions. The name ìfederationî as applied to 
the United States became an empty word, a relic of the 
past which had long since ceased to correspond to the 
actual state of affairs. 
The same must be said of Switzerland and Canada, 
to whom the author of the article likewise refers. We 
find the same independent states (cantons) at the beginning, 
the same struggle for stronger union (the war 
against the Sonderbund8 in Switzerland, the struggle 
between the British and French in Canada), and the 
same subsequent conversion of the federation into a 
unitary state. 
What do these facts indicate? 
Only that in America, as well as in Canada and 
Switzerland, the development was from independent 
regions, through their federation, to a unitary state; 
that the trend of development i s not in favour of 
federation, but against it. Federation is a transitional 
form. 
This is not fortuitous, because the development 
of capitalism in its higher forms, with the concomitant 
expansion of the economic territory, and its trend towards 
centralization, demands not a federal, but a unitary 
form of state. 
We cannot ignore this trend, unless, of course, we 
try to turn back the wheel of history. 
But it follows from this that in Russia it would be 
unwise to work for a federation, which is doomed by the 
very realities of life to disappear.

J. V. S T A L I N 28 
Delo Naroda proposes to repeat in Russia the experience 
of the United States of 1776. But is there even a 
remote analogy between the United States of 1776 and 
the Russia of today? 
The United States was at that time a congeries of 
independent colonies, unconnected with one another 
and desirous of linking themselves together at least in the 
form of a confederation. And that desire was quite natural. 
Is the situation in any way similar in present-day 
Russia? Of course, not! It is clear to everyone that the 
regions (border districts) of Russia are linked with Central 
Russia by economic and political ties, and that the 
more democratic Russia becomes, the stronger these ties 
will be. 
Further, in order to establish a confederation or federation 
in America, it was necessary to unite colonies 
which were unconnected with one another. And that 
was in the interest of the economic development of the 
United States. But in order to convert Russia into a 
federation, it would be necessary to break the already 
existing economic and political ties connecting the 
regions with one another, which would be absolutely 
unwise and reactionary. 
Lastly, America (like Canada and Switzerland) is 
divided into states (cantons) not on national, but on 
geographical lines. The states evolved from colonial 
communities, irrespective of their national composition. 
There are several dozen states in the United States, 
but only seven or eight national groups. There are 25 cantons 
(regions) in Switzerland, but only three national 
groups. Not so in Russia. What in Russia are called 
regions which need, say, autonomy (the Ukraine, Trans

AGAINST FEDERALISM 29 
caucasia, Siberia, Turkestan, etc.), are not simply geographical 
regions, as the Urals or the Volga area are; 
they are definite parts of Russia, each with its own definite 
way of life and a population of definite (non-Russian) 
national composition. Precisely for this reason 
autonomy (or federation) of the states in America 
or Switzerland, far from being a solution for the national 
problem (this, in fact, is not its aim!), does not 
even raise the question. But, in Russia, autonomy 
(or federation) of the regions is proposed precisely 
in order to raise and solve the national problem, 
because Russia is divided into regions on national 
lines. 
Is it not clear then that the analogy between the 
United States of 1776 and the Russia of today is artificial 
and foolish? 
Is it not clear that in Russia federalism would not, 
and cannot, solve the national problem, that it would 
only confuse and complicate it by quixotic attempts 
to turn back the wheel of history? 
No, the proposal to repeat in Russia the experience 
of America of 1776 will positively not do. The transitional 
half-measure, federation, does not and cannot 
satisfy the interests of democracy. 
The solution of the national problem must be as 
practicable as it is radical and final, viz.: 
1) The right of secession for the nations inhabiting 
certain regions of Russia who cannot remain, or who do 
not desire to remain, within the integral framework; 
2) Political autonomy within the framework of the 
single (integral) state, with uniform constitutional provisions, 
for the regions which have a specific national

J. V. S T A L I N 30 
composition and which remain within the integral 
framework. 
It is in this way, and in this way alone, that the 
problem of the regions should be solved in Russia.* 
Pravda, No. 19, 
March 28, 1917 
Signed: K. Stalin 
* AUTHORíS NOTE 
This article reflects the attitude of disapproval 
towards a federal form of state which prevailed in our 
Party at that time. The objection to constitutional 
federalism was most distinctly expressed in Leninís letter 
to Shaumyan of November 1913. ìWe,î Lenin said 
in that letter, ìstand for democratic centralism, unreservedly. 
We are opposed to federation. . . . We are opposed 
to federation in principleóit weakens economic 
ties, and is unsuitable for what is one state. You want 
to secede? Well, go to the devil if you can bring yourself 
to sever economic ties, or, rather, if the burden and 
friction of ëcohabitationí are such that they poison and 
corrode economic ties. You donít want to secede? Good, 
but then donít decide for me, and donít think you have 
the ërightí to federationî (see Vol. XVII, p. 90**). 
It is noteworthy that in the resolution on the national 
question adopted by the April Conference of the 
** References in Roman numerals to Leninís works here and 
elsewhere are to the 3rd edition of the Works.óTr.

FROM MARX 
TO MAO 
 
NOT FOR 
COMMERCIAL 
DISTRIBUTION 
31 
Party in 1917,9 the question of a federal structure was 
not even mentioned. The resolution spoke of the right of 
nations to secession, of autonomy for national regions 
within the framework of the integral (unitary) state, and, 
lastly, of the enactment of a fundamental law prohibiting 
all national privileges whatsoever, but not a word was said 
about the permissibility of a federal structure of the state. 
In Leninís book, The State and Revolution (August 
1917), the Party, in the person of Lenin, made the first 
serious step towards recognition of the permissibility of 
federation, as a transitional form ìto a centralized republic,î 
this recognition, however, being accompanied by 
a number of substantial reservations. 
ìApproaching the matter from the point of view of the proletariat 
and the proletarian revolution,î Lenin says in this book, 
ìEngels, like Marx, upheld democratic centralism, the republicó 
one and indivisible. He regarded the federal republic either 
as an exception and a hindrance to development, or as a transitional 
form from a monarchy to a centralized republic, as a ëstep 
forwardí under certain special conditions. And, as one of these 
special conditions, he mentions the national question. . . . Even 
in regard to England, where geographical conditions, a common 
language and the history of many centuries would seem to have 
ëput an endí to the national question in the separate small divisions 
of Englandóeven in regard to that country, Engels reckoned 
with the patent fact that the national question was not yet a thing 
of the past, and recognized in consequence that the establishment 
of a federal republic would be a ëstep forward.í Of course, there 
is not the slightest hint here of Engels abandoning the criticism 
of the shortcomings of a federal republic or that he abandoned 
the most determined propaganda and struggle for a unified and 
centralized democratic republicî (see Vol. XXI, p. 419). 
Only after the October Revolution did the Party 
firmly and definitely adopt the position of state feder- 
AGAINST FEDERALISM

J. V. S T A L I N 32 
ation, advancing it as its own plan for the constitution 
of the Soviet Republics in the transitional period. This 
position was expressed for the first time in January 
1918, in the ìDeclaration of Rights of the Toiling and 
Exploited People,î written by Lenin and approved by 
the Central Committee of the Party. This declaration 
said: ìThe Russian Soviet Republic is established on 
the principle of a free union of free nations, as a federation 
of Soviet national republicsî (see Vol. XXII, 
p. 174). 
Officially, this position was affirmed by the Party 
at its Eighth Congress (1919).10 It was at this congress, 
as we know, that the program of the Russian Communist 
Party was adopted. The program says: ìAs one of the 
transitional forms towards complete unity, the Party 
recommends a federal amalgamation of states organized 
on the Soviet patternî (see Program of the R.C.P.). 
Thus the Party traversed the path from denial of 
federation to recognition of federation as ìa transitional 
form to the complete unity of the working people of the 
various nationsî (see ìTheses on the National Questionî
11 adopted by the Second Congress of the Comintern). 
This evolution in our Partyís views on the question 
of a federal state is to be attributed to three causes. 
First, the fact that at the time of the October Revolution 
a number of the nationalities of Russia were actually 
in a state of complete secession and complete isolation 
from one another, and, in view of this, federation 
represented a step forward from the division of the working 
masses of these nationalities to their closer union, 
their amalgamation.

AGAINST FEDERALISM 33 
Secondly, the fact that the very forms of federation 
which suggested themselves in the course of Soviet development 
proved by no means so contradictory to the 
aim of closer economic unity between the working masses 
of the nationalities of Russia as might have appeared 
formerly, and even did not contradict this aim at all, 
as was subsequently demonstrated in practice. 
Thirdly, the fact that the national movement proved 
to be far more weighty a factor, and the process of amalgamation 
of nations far more complicated a matter than 
might have appeared formerly, in the period prior to 
the war, or in the period prior to the October Revolution. 
J. St. 
December 1924

TWO RESOLUTIONS 
Two resolutions. Oneóthat of the Executive Committee 
of the Soviet of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies. 
The otheróthat of the workers (400) of the machine 
shops of the Russo-Baltic Railway Car Works. 
The former is for supporting the so-called ìLiberty 
Loan.î 
The latter is against. 
The former uncritically accepts the ìLiberty Loanî 
at its face value, as a loan in support of liberty. 
The latter characterizes the ìLiberty Loanî as a 
loan against liberty, because it is ìbeing floated with 
the aim of continuing the fratricidal slaughter, which 
is advantageous only to the imperialist bourgeoisie.î 
The former is prompted by the misgivings of distraught 
mindsówhat about the supply of the army, 
will not the supply of the army be injured by refusal 
to support the loan? 
The latter has no such misgivings, because it sees 
a solution: it ìrecognizes that to supply the needs of the 
army funds are required, and points out to the Soviet 
of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies that these funds 
should be taken from the pockets of the bourgeoisie, who 
started and are continuing this war, and who are coining 
millions out of the slaughter.î

TWO RESOLUTIONS 35 
The authors of the first resolution should be content, 
for have they not ìdone their dutyî? 
The authors of the second resolution protest, considering 
that by such an attitude towards the cause of the 
proletariat the former are ìbetraying the International.î 
That hits the nail on the head! 
For and against a ìLiberty Loanî that is directed 
against liberty. 
Workers, who are right? Decide for yourselves, 
comrades. 
Pravda, No. 29, 
April 11, 1917 
Signed: K. Stalin

THE LAND TO THE PEASANTS 
The peasants of the Ryazan Gubernia have sent 
a statement to Minister Shingaryov to the effect that 
they will plough the land left uncultivated by the 
landlords even if the landlords do not give their consent. 
The peasants declare that it will be disastrous if 
the landlords refrain from planting, that immediate 
ploughing of untilled land is the only means of ensuring 
bread both for the population in the rear and for 
the army at the front. 
In reply to this, Minister Shingaryov (see his telegram12) 
emphatically prohibits unauthorized ploughing, 
calling it ìusurpation,î and orders the peasants to wait 
until the convocation of the Constituent Assembly; it, 
forsooth, will settle everything. 
As, however, it is not known when the Constituent 
Assembly will be convened, since its convocation is 
being postponed by the Provisional Government, of 
which Mr. Shingaryov is a member, it follows that, 
in fact, the land is to remain unploughed, the landlords 
are to remain in possession of the land, the peasants 
without land, and Russiaóthe workers, the peasants and 
the soldiersówithout sufficient bread. 
And all this in order not to offend the landlords, 
even though Russia fall into the clutches of famine.

THE LAND TO THE PEASANTS 37 
Such is the reply of the Provisional Government, of 
which Minister Shingaryov is a member. 
This reply does not surprise us. A government of 
manufacturers and landlords cannot behave otherwise 
towards the peasantsówhat do they care about the 
peasants so long as all is well with the landlords? 
We, therefore, call upon the peasants, upon the 
peasant poor of all Russia, to take their cause into their 
own hands and push it forward. 
We call upon them to organize and form revolutionary 
peasant committees (volost, uyezd, etc.), take 
over the landed estates through these committees, and 
cultivate the land in an organized manner without 
authorization. 
We call upon them to do this without delay, not 
waiting for the Constituent Assembly and paying no 
attention to reactionary ministerial prohibitions which 
put spokes in the wheel of the revolution. 
We are told that immediate seizure of the landed 
estates would disrupt the ìunityî of the revolution 
by splitting off the ìprogressive strataî of society from it. 
But it would be naive to think that it is possible 
to advance the revolution without quarrelling with the 
manufacturers and landlords. 
Did not the workers ìsplit offî the manufacturers 
and their ilk from the revolution when they introduced 
the eight-hour day? Who would venture to assert that 
the revolution has suffered from having alleviated the 
condition of the workers, from having shortened the 
working day? 
Unauthorized cultivation of the landed estates and 
their seizure by the peasants will undoubtedly ìsplit offî

J. V. S T A L I N 38 
the landlords and their ilk from the revolution. But who 
would venture to assert that by rallying the millions of 
poor peasants around the revolution we shall be weakening 
the forces of the revolution? 
People who want to influence the course of the revolution 
must realize once and for all: 
1) That the main forces of our revolution are the 
workers and the poor peasants who, owing to the war, 
are now wearing soldierís uniform; 
2) That as the revolution grows deeper and wider, 
the so-called ìprogressive elements,î who are progressive 
in word but reactionary in deed, will ìsplit offî 
from it inevitably. 
It would be reactionary utopianism to retard this 
beneficent process of purging the revolution of unnecessary 
ìelements.î 
The policy of waiting and procrastinating until the 
Constituent Assembly is convened, the policy recommended 
by the Narodniks, Trudoviks, and Mensheviks of 
ìtemporarilyî renouncing confiscation, the policy of 
zigzagging between the classes (so as not to offend anybody!) 
and of shamefully marking time, is not the policy 
of the revolutionary proletariat. 
The victorious onmarch of the Russian revolution 
will sweep it away like so much superfluous lumber that 
is suitable and advantageous only to the enemies of the 
revolution. 
Pravda, No. 32, 
April 14, 1917 
Editorial 
Signed: K. Stalin

MAY DAY 
It is nearly three years since the bourgeois vampires 
of the belligerent countries plunged the world into 
a bloody shambles. 
For nearly three years now the workers of all countries, 
who were yesterday kin brothers and are now 
clad in soldierís uniform, have stood confronting one 
another as enemies, and are crippling and murdering one 
another to the joy of the enemies of the proletariat. 
Wholesale slaughter of the man power of the nations, 
wholesale ruin and want, destruction of once flourishing 
towns and villages, wholesale starvation and lapse 
into savagery, all in order that a handful of crowned 
and uncrowned robbers may pillage foreign lands and 
rake in untold millionsóthis is where the war is 
tending. 
The world has begun to stifle in the grip of war. . . . 
The peoples of Europe can bear it no longer, and are 
already rising up against the bellicose bourgeoisie. 
The Russian revolution is the first to be forcing 
a breach in the wall that divides the workers from one 
another. The Russian workers, at this time of universal 
ìpatrioticî frenzy, are the first to proclaim the forgotten 
slogan: ìWorkers of all countries, unite!î

J. V. S T A L I N 40 
Amidst the thunder of the Russian revolution, the 
workers of the West too are rising from their slumber. 
The strikes and demonstrations in Germany, the demonstrations 
in Austria and Bulgaria, the strikes and meetings 
in neutral countries, the growing unrest in Britain 
and France, the mass fraternization on the battle 
frontsóthese are the first harbingers of the socialist 
revolution that is brewing. 
And this holiday we are celebrating today, this May 
Day, is it not a sign that in the welter of blood new ties 
of fraternity among the peoples are being forged? 
The soil is burning underneath the feet of the capitalist 
robbers, for the Red Flag of the International 
is again waving over Europe. 
Let, then, this First of May, when hundreds of thousands 
of Petrograd workers extend the hand of fraternity 
to the workers of the world, be an earnest of the birth of 
a new revolutionary International! 
Let the slogan which resounds today in the squares 
of PetrogradóìWorkers of all countries, unite!îóreverberate 
through the world and unite the workers of 
all countries in the fight for socialism! 
Over the heads of the capitalist robbers, over the 
heads of their predatory governments, we extend a hand 
to the workers of all countries, and cry: 
Hail the First of May! 
Hail the Brotherhood of Nations! 
Hail the Socialist Revolution! 
Pravda, No. 35, 
April 18 (May 1), 1917 
Unsigned

THE PROVISIONAL GOVERNMENT 
Speech Delivered at a Meeting in Vasilyevsky Ostrov 
April 18 (May 1), 1917 
In the course of the revolution two governmental 
authorities have arisen in the country: the Provisional 
Government, elected by the Duma of June the Third, 
and the Soviet of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies, 
elected by the workers and soldiers. 
The relations between these two authorities are 
becoming increasingly strained; the former cooperation 
between them is coming to an end; and it would be criminal 
on our part to gloss over this fact. 
The bourgeoisie were the first to raise the question 
of the dual power; they were the first to pose the 
alternative: either the Provisional Government, or 
the Soviet of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies. The 
question has been put bluntly, and it would be unworthy 
of us to evade it. The workers and soldiers 
must say clearly and distinctly which they consider 
to be their governmentóthe Provisional Government, 
or the Soviet of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies. 
We are told that there must be confidence in the 
Provisional Government, that this confidence is essential. 
But what confidence can there be in a government

J. V. S T A L I N 42 
which itself has no confidence in the people on the cardinal 
and basic issue? We are in the midst of a war. 
It is being waged on the basis of treaties concluded 
by the tsar with Britain and France behind the back 
of the people and now sanctified by the Provisional 
Government without the consent of the people. The 
people are entitled to know the contents of these treaties; 
the workers and soldiers are entitled to know 
what they are shedding their blood for. To the demand 
of the workers and soldiers that the treaties be 
made public, what did the Provisional Government 
reply? 
It declared that the treaties remained in force. 
And i t did not publish the treaties, and doesnít 
intend to publish them! 
Is it not obvious that the Provisional Government 
is concealing the real aims of the war from the people 
and that, by concealing them, it is stubbornly refusing 
to put its confidence in the people? What confidence 
can the workers and peasants have in a Provisional 
Government which itself has no confidence in them on 
the cardinal and basic issue? 
We are told that the Provisional Government must 
be supported, that such support is essential. But judge 
for yourselves: can we, in a period of revolution, support 
a government which has been hindering the revolution 
from its very inception? So far, the situation has been 
one in which the revolutionary initiative and democratic 
measures emanated from the Soviet of Workersí and 
Soldiersí Deputies, and from it alone. The Provisional 
Government held back and resisted and only afterwards 
agreed with the Soviet, and then only partially and

THE PROVISIONAL GOVERNMENT 43 
verbally, while in practice creating obstacles. Such has 
been the situation so far. But how is it possible, at the 
height of revolution, to support a government which 
gets in the way of the revolution and pulls it back? Would 
it not be better to demand that the Provisional Government 
should not hinder the Soviet of Workersí and 
Soldiersí Deputies in the work of further democratizing 
the country? 
The forces of counter-revolution are mobilizing in 
the land. They are carrying on agitation in the army. 
They are carrying on agitation among the peasants and 
the small townsfolk. The counter-revolutionary agitation 
is spearheaded first and foremost against the Soviet 
of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies. It uses the name of 
the Provisional Government as a screen. And the Provisional 
Government plainly connives at the attacks 
on the Soviet of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies. 
Why, then, should we support the Provisional Government? 
Not for its connivance at counter-revolutionary 
agitation, surely? 
An agrarian movement has begun in Russia. The 
peasants are seeking on their own authority to plough 
the land left untilled by the landlords. If that is not 
done, the country may find itself on the verge of famine. 
In compliance with the wishes of the peasants, the All- 
Russian Conference of Soviets13 resolved to ìsupportî 
the peasant movement for the confiscation of the landed 
estates. But what does the Provisional Government do? 
It characterizes the peasant movement as ìusurpation,î 
forbids the peasants to plough up the landed estates, 
and issues instructions ìaccordinglyî to its commissars 
(see Rech, April 17). Why, then, should we support the

J. V. S T A L I N 44 
Provisional Government? Not for its having declared war 
on the peasantry, surely? 
We are told that lack of confidence in the Provisional 
Government will undermine the unity of the revolution, 
repel the capitalists and landlords from it. But who 
will venture to assert that the capitalists and landlords 
really are supporting, or can support, the revolution 
of the masses? 
Did not the Soviet of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies, 
when it introduced the eight-hour working day, 
repel the capitalists, and at the same time rally the 
broad mass of the workers around the revolution? Who 
would venture to assert that the dubious friendship of 
a handful of manufacturers is more valuable to the revolution 
than the real friendship of millions of workers 
which has been cemented with blood? 
Or again, did not the All-Russian Conference of Soviets, 
when it decided to support the peasants, repel the 
landlords and at the same time link the peasant masses 
to the revolution? Who would venture to assert that the 
dubious friendship of a handful of landlords is more valuable 
to the revolution than the real friendship of the 
many millions of poor peasants now clad in soldierís 
uniform? 
The revolution cannot satisfy everyone and everybody. 
One of its sides always satisfies the toiling masses, 
while the other strikes at the overt and covert enemies 
of the masses. 
It is therefore necessary to choose: either with the 
workers and poor peasants for the revolution, or with the 
capitalists and landlords against the revolution. 
And so, who shall we support?

THE PROVISIONAL GOVERNMENT 45 
Who shall we regard as our government: the Soviet 
of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies or the Provisional 
Government? 
Clearly, the workers and soldiers can support only 
the Soviet of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies which 
they themselves elected. 
Soldatskaya Pravda, No. 6, 
April 25, 1917 
Signed: K. Stalin

THE CONFERENCE 
IN THE MARIINSKY PALACE 
A report of the conference between the Executive 
Committee of the Soviet of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies 
and the Provisional Government has already 
appeared in the bourgeois press. This report, which in 
general is rather less than accurate, in places flatly 
distorts the facts and is misleading. This apart from the 
peculiar manner of handling the facts which is characteristic 
of the bourgeois press. It is therefore necessary 
to reproduce the real picture of what happened at the 
conference. 
The purpose of the conference was to clarify the 
relations between the Provisional Government and the 
Executive Committee in connection with Minister Milyukovís 
Note,14 which had sharpened the conflict. 
The conference was opened by Premier Lvov. His 
introductory speech boiled down to the following points. 
Until very recently the country had had confidence in 
the Provisional Government and things had gone satisfactorily. 
But now this confidence had disappeared, and 
there was even resistance. This had been felt particularly 
in the past fortnight, when certain well-known 
socialist circles started a campaign in the press against 
the Provisional Government. That could not continue.

THE CONFERENCE IN THE MARIINSKY PALACE 47 
They must have the determined support of the Soviet 
of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies. Otherwise, they 
would resign. 
Then came ìreportsî by Ministers (War, Agriculture, 
Transport, Finance, Foreign Affairs), the most 
outspoken being Guchkov, Shingaryov and Milyukov. 
The speeches of the other Ministers only repeated their 
conclusions. 
Minister Guchkovís speech amounted to a justification 
of the imperialist view of our revolution, namely, 
that the revolution in Russia must be regarded as a means 
of ìfighting the war to a finish.î ìIt was my conviction,î 
he said in effect, ìthat a revolution in Russia was needed 
in order to avoid defeat. I wanted the revolution to 
create a new factor of victory, and I hoped that it would 
create it. Our aim is defencism in the broad meaning 
of the term, defencism not only for the present, but also 
for the future. But in these past weeks there have been a 
number of adverse developments. . . . The fatherland is 
in danger.î . . . The chief reason was the ìspate of 
pacifist ideasî preached by certain socialist circles. The 
Minister transparently hinted that this preaching 
must be curbed, that discipline must be restored, and 
that in this the assistance of the Executive Committee 
was needed. . . . 
Minister Shingaryov painted a picture of the food 
crisis in Russia. . . . The cardinal issue was not the Note 
and foreign policy, but grain: if the grain situation were 
not remedied, nothing could be remedied. No small 
factor in aggravating the food crisis was the spoiling of 
the roads owing to the spring thaw, and other transient 
causes. But the chief reason, Shingaryov considered,

J. V. S T A L I N 48 
was the ìdeplorable factî that the peasants were ìtaking 
up the land question,î were arbitrarily ploughing 
up landed estates, removing war prisoners from the 
landlordsí farms, and generally indulging in agrarian 
ìillusions.î This peasant movementóin Shingaryovís 
opinion a harmful movementówas being ìfannedî 
by the agitation of the ìLeninistsî in favour of the confiscation 
of the land and their ìfanatical partisan blindness.î 
The ìpernicious agitationî from that ìpoisonous 
nest, the Kshesinska mansion,î15 must be stopped. . . . 
One or the other: either confidence in the existing Provisional 
Government, in which case the agrarian ìexcessesî 
must stop; or another government. 
Milyukov. ìThe Note is not my personal opinion, 
but the opinion of the entire Provisional Government. 
The question of foreign policy amounts to the 
question of whether we are prepared to fulfil our pledges 
to our allies. We are bound to our allies. . . . Generally, 
we are assessed as a force solely by whether we are fitted 
or unfitted for specified purposes. We have only to 
show ourselves weak, and the attitude towards us will 
change for the worse. . . . Renunciation of annexations 
would therefore be fraught with danger. . . . We need 
your confidence; let us have it, and then there will be 
enthusiasm in the army, we shall then have an offensive 
in the interests of a united front, we shall then press 
hard on the Germans and deflect them from the French 
and British. This is demanded by our commitments to 
our allies.î ìYou see, then,î Milyukov concluded, 
ìthat, the situation being what it is, and we not being 
desirous of losing the confidence of our allies, the Note 
could not be other than it was.î

THE CONFERENCE IN THE MARIINSKY PALACE 49 
Thus the lengthy speeches of the Ministers boiled 
down to a few terse theses: the country was passing 
through a severe crisis; the cause of the crisis was the 
revolutionary movement; the way out of the crisis was 
to curb the revolution and carry on with the war. 
It followed that to save the country it was necessary: 
1) to curb the soldiers (Guchkov), 2) to curb the peasants 
(Shingaryov), 3) to curb the revolutionary workers 
(all the Ministers), who are unmasking the Provisional 
Government. Support us in this difficult job, 
help us to wage an offensive war (Milyukov), and all will 
be well. Otherwise, we resign. 
That is what the Ministers said. 
It is highly noteworthy that these arch-imperialist 
and counter-revolutionary speeches of the Ministers met 
with no rebuff from the representative of the Executive 
Committee majority, Tsereteli. Scared by the Ministersí 
bluntness, and dumbfounded by the prospect of their 
resignation, Tsereteli, in his speech, implored them to 
make a still possible concession by issuing an ìexplanationî
16 of the Note in a desirable spirit, at least for 
ìhome consumption.î ìThe democracy,î he said, ìwould 
support the Provisional Government with the utmost 
energy,î if it consented to make this concession, which, 
essentially speaking, would be a purely verbal one. 
A desire to gloss over the conflict between the Provisional 
Government and the Executive Committee, 
a readiness to make concessions so long as agreement 
was maintainedósuch was the keynote of Tsereteliís 
speeches. 
Quite the opposite was the tenor of Kamenevís 
speech. If the country was on the verge of disaster, if

J. V. S T A L I N 50 
it was in the throes of economic, food and other crises, 
the way out lay not in continuing the war, which would 
only aggravate the crisis and might devour the fruits 
of the revolution, but in its speediest termination. To 
all appearances the existing Provisional Government was 
not capable of assuming the task of ending the war, 
because it was out for a ìwar to a finish.î The solution 
therefore lay in the transfer of power to another class, 
a class capable of leading the country out of the impasse. 
. . . 
When Kamenev concluded, there were cries from the 
Ministerial seats: ìWell, then, take power yourselves!î 
Pravda, No. 40 
April 26, 1917 
Signed: K. Stalin

THE SEVENTH (APRIL) CONFERENCE 
OF THE R.S.D.L.P. (BOLSHEVIKS) 
April 24-29, 1917 
1. SPEECH IN SUPPORT 
OF COMRADE LENINíS RESOLUTION 
ON THE CURRENT SITUATION 
April 24 
Comrades, that which Bubnov proposes is provided 
for in Comrade Leninís resolution. Comrade Lenin does 
not reject mass action, demonstrations. But this is not 
the point at present. The disagreement centres around 
the question of control. Control presumes controller and 
controlled, and some sort of agreement between controller 
and controlled. We had control and we had an agreement. 
What were the results of control? Nil. After Milyukovís 
pronouncement (of April 19) its shadowy character 
has become particularly evident. 
Guchkov says, ìI regard the revolution as a means 
of fighting better: let us make a small revolution for the 
sake of a big victory.î But now the army is permeated 
with pacifist ideas and it is impossible to fight. The 
government tells us, ìStop the propaganda against the 
war, otherwise we resign.î 
On the agrarian question the government is likewise 
unable to meet the interests of the peasants, the 
seizure by the latter of the landed estates. We are told, 
ìHelp us to curb the peasants, otherwise we resign.î

J. V. S T A L I N 52 
Milyukov says, ìA united front must be preserved, 
we must attack the enemy. Inspire the soldiers 
with enthusiasm, otherwise we resign.î 
And after this we are proposed control. It is ridiculous! 
At first the Soviet outlined the program, now 
the Provisional Government outlines it. The alliance concluded 
between the Soviet and the government on the 
day after the crisis (Milyukovís pronouncement) signifies 
that the Soviet is following the government. The 
government attacks the Soviet. The Soviet retreats. To 
suggest after this that the Soviet controls the government 
is just idle talk. That is why I propose that Bubnovís 
amendment on control be not accepted. 
2. REPORT ON THE NATIONAL QUESTION 
April 29 
The national question should be the subject of an 
extensive report, but since time is short I must make 
my report brief. 
Before discussing the draft resolution certain premises 
must be established. 
What is national oppression? National oppression is 
the system of exploitation and robbery of oppressed peoples, 
the measures of forcible restriction of the rights 
of oppressed nationalities, resorted to by imperialist 
circles. These, taken together, represent the policy generally 
known as a policy of national oppression. 
The first question is, on what classes does any particular 
government rely in carrying out its policy of national 
oppression? Before an answer to this question can 
be given, it must first be understood why different forms

THE SEVENTH (APRIL) CONFERENCE OF THE R.S.D.L.P.(B.) 53 
of national oppression exist in different states, why national 
oppression is severer and cruder in one state than 
in another. For instance, in Britain and Austria-Hungary 
national oppression has never taken the form of pogroms, 
but has existed in the form of restrictions on the national 
rights of the oppressed nationalities. In Russia, on the 
other hand, it not infrequently assumes the form of pogroms 
and massacres. In certain states, moreover, there are 
no specific measures against national minorities at all. For 
instance, there is no national oppression in Switzerland, 
where French, Italians and Germans all live freely. 
How are we to explain the difference in attitude towards 
nationalities in different states? 
By the difference in the degree of democracy prevailing 
in these states. When in former years the old landed 
aristocracy controlled the state power in Russia, national 
oppression could assume, and actually did assume, 
the monstrous form of massacres and pogroms. In Britain, 
where there is a certain degree of democracy and 
political freedom, national oppression is of a less brutal 
character. Switzerland approximates to a democratic 
society, and in that country the nations have more or 
less complete freedom. In short, the more democratic 
a country, the less the national oppression, and vice 
versa. And since by democracy we mean that definite 
classes are in control of the state power, it may be 
said from this point of view that the closer the old landed 
aristocracy is to power, as was the case in old tsarist 
Russia, the more severe is the oppression and the more 
monstrous are its forms. 
However, national oppression is maintained not only 
by the landed aristocracy. There is, in addition, another

J. V. S T A L I N 54 
forceóthe imperialist groups, who introduce in their own 
country the methods of enslaving nationalities learned 
in the colonies and thus become the natural allies of 
the landed aristocracy. They are followed by the petty 
bourgeoisie, a section of the intelligentsia and a section 
of the upper stratum of the workers, who also share the 
spoils of robbery. Thus, there is a whole gamut of social 
forces, headed by the landed and financial aristocracy, 
which support national oppression. In order to create 
a real democratic system, it is first of all necessary to 
clear the ground and remove these forces from the political 
stage. (Reads the text of the resolution.) 
The first question is, how is the political life of the 
oppressed nations to be arranged? In answer to this 
question it must be said that the oppressed peoples forming 
part of Russia must be allowed the right to decide 
for themselves whether they wish to remain part of the 
Russian state or to secede and form independent states. 
We are at present witnessing a definite conflict between 
the Finnish people and the Provisional Government. The 
representatives of the Finnish people, the representatives 
of Social-Democracy, are demanding that the Provisional 
Government should restore to the people the rights 
they enjoyed before they were annexed to Russia. The 
Provisional Government refuses, because it will not recognize 
the sovereignty of the Finnish people. On whose 
side must we range ourselves? Obviously, on the side 
of the Finnish people, for it is inconceivable for us to 
accept the forcible retention of any people whatsoever 
within the bounds of a unitary state. When we put forward 
the principle that peoples have the right to selfdetermination 
we thereby raise the struggle against na

THE SEVENTH (APRIL) CONFERENCE OF THE R.S.D.L.P.(B.) 55 
tional oppression to the level of a struggle against 
imperialism, our common enemy. I f we fail to do 
this, we may find ourselves in the position of bringing 
grist to the mill of the imperialists. If we, Social- 
Democrats, were to deny the Finnish people the right to 
declare their will on the subject of secession and the 
right to give effect to their will, we would be putting 
ourselves in the position of continuing the policy of tsarism. 
It would be impermissible to confuse the question 
of the right of nations freely to secede with the question 
of whether a nation must necessarily secede at any given 
moment. This latter question must be settled quite separately 
by the party of the proletariat in each particular 
case, according to the circumstances. When we recognize 
the right of oppressed peoples to secede, the right to 
decide their political destiny, we do not thereby settle 
the question whether particular nations should secede 
from the Russian state at the given moment. I may recognize 
the right of a nation to secede, but that does not 
mean that I oblige it to do so. A people has the right 
to secede, but it may or may not exercise that right, according 
to the circumstances. Thus we are at liberty 
to agitate for or against secession in accordance with the 
interests of the proletariat, of the proletarian revolution. 
Hence, the question of secession must be determined in 
each particular case independently, in accordance with 
the existing situation, and, for this reason, recognizing 
the right of secession must not be confused with the 
expediency of secession in any given circumstances. 
For instance, I personally would be opposed to the 
secession of Transcaucasia, bearing in mind the common

J. V. S T A L I N 56 
development in Transcaucasia and Russia, certain conditions 
of the struggle of the proletariat, and so forth. But 
if, nevertheless, the peoples of Transcaucasia were to 
demand secession, they would, of course, secede without 
encountering opposition from us. (Reads further 
the text of the resolution.) 
Further, what is to be done with the peoples which 
may desire to remain within the Russian state? Whatever 
mistrust of Russia existed among the peoples was fostered 
chiefly by the tsarist policy. But now that tsarism 
no longer exists, and its policy of oppression no longer 
exists, this mistrust is bound to diminish and attraction 
towards Russia to increase. I believe that now, after 
the overthrow of tsarism, nine-tenths of the nationalities 
will not desire to secede. The Party therefore proposes 
to institute regional autonomy for regions which do not 
desire to secede and which are distinguished by peculiarities 
of customs and language, as, for instance, 
Transcaucasia, Turkestan and the Ukraine. The geographical 
boundaries of these autonomous regions must 
be determined by the populations themselves with due 
regard for economic conditions, customs, etc. 
In contradistinction to regional autonomy there exists 
another plan, one which has long been recommended 
by the Bund,17 and particularly by Springer and Bauer, 
who advocate the principle of cultural-national autonomy. 
I consider that plan unacceptable for Social-Democrats. 
Its essence is that Russia should be transformed 
into a union of nations, and nations into unions of persons, 
drawn into a common society no matter what part 
of the state they may be living in. All Russians, all 
Armenians, and so on, are to be organized into separate

THE SEVENTH (APRIL) CONFERENCE OF THE R.S.D.L.P.(B.) 57 
national unions, irrespective of territory, and only then 
are they to enter the union of nations of all Russia. That 
plan is extremely inconvenient and inexpedient. The fact 
is that the development of capitalism has dispersed whole 
groups of people, severed them from their nations and 
scattered them through various parts of Russia. In view 
of the dispersion of nations resulting from economic conditions, 
to draw together the various individuals of a 
given nation would be to organize and build a nation 
artificially. And to draw people together into nations 
artificially would be to adopt the standpoint of nationalism. 
That plan, advanced by the Bund, cannot be endorsed 
by Social-Democrats. It was rejected at the 1912 
conference of our Party, and generally enjoys no popularity 
in Social-Democratic circles with the exception 
of the Bund. That plan is also known as cultural autonomy, 
because from among the numerous and varied 
questions which interest a nation it would single out 
the group of cultural questions and put them in the 
charge of national unions. The reason for singling out 
these questions is the assumption that what unites a 
nation into an integral whole is its culture. It is assumed 
that within a nation there are, on the one hand, interests 
which tend to disintegrate the nation, economic, for instance, 
and on the other, interests which tend to weld 
it into an integral whole, and that the latter interests 
are cultural interests. 
Lastly, there is the question of the national minorities. 
Their rights must be specially protected. The Party 
therefore demands full equality of status in educational, 
religious and other matters and the abolition of all restrictions 
on national minorities.

J. V. S T A L I N 58 
There is ß 9, which proclaims the equality of nations. 
The conditions required for its realization can arise only 
when the whole of society has been fully democratized. 
We have still to settle the question of how to organize 
the proletariat of the various nations into a single, common 
party. One plan is that the workers should be organized 
on national linesóso many nations, so many 
parties. That plan was rejected by the Social-Democrats. 
Experience has shown that the organization of the proletariat 
of a given state on national lines tends only to 
destroy the idea of class solidarity. All the proletarians 
of all the nations in a given state must be organized in a 
single, indivisible proletarian collective. 
Thus, our views on the national question can be reduced 
to the following propositions: 
a) Recognition of the right of nations to secession; 
b) Regional autonomy for nations remaining within 
the given state; 
c) Special legislation guaranteeing freedom of development 
for national minorities; 
d) A single, indivisible proletarian collective, a single 
party, for the proletarians of all nationalities of 
the given state. 
3. REPLY TO THE DISCUSSION 
ON THE NATIONAL QUESTION 
April 29 
The two resolutions are on the whole similar. Pyatakov 
has copied all the points of our resolution except 
oneóìrecognition of the right of secession.î One thing 
or the other: either we deny the nations the right of se

THE SEVENTH (APRIL) CONFERENCE OF THE R.S.D.L.P.(B.) 59 
cession, in which case it must be stated explicitly; or 
we do not deny them this right. There is at present a 
movement in Finland for securing national freedom, and 
there is also the fight waged against it by the Provisional 
Government. The question arises, who are we to support? 
Either we are for the policy of the Provisional Government, 
the forcible retention of Finland and the reduction 
of her rights to a minimumóin which case we are annexationists, 
for we are bringing grist to the mill of the Provisional 
Government; or we are for independence for 
Finland. We must express ourselves definitely one way 
or the other; we cannot limit ourselves to a statement 
of rights. 
There is a movement for independence in Ireland. 
On whose side are we, comrades? We are either for Ireland 
or for British imperialism. And I ask: Are we on the 
side of the peoples which are resisting oppression, or on 
the side of the classes which are oppressing them? We 
say that inasmuch as the Social-Democrats are steering 
for a socialist revolution, they must support the revolutionary 
movement of the peoples, which is directed 
against imperialism. 
Either we consider that we must create a rear for 
the vanguard of the socialist revolution in the shape of 
the peoples which are rising against national oppressionó 
and in that case we shall build a bridge between West and 
East and shall indeed be steering for a world socialist 
revolution; or we do not do thisóand in that case we 
shall find ourselves isolated and shall be abandoning 
the tactics of utilizing every revolutionary movement 
among the oppressed nationalities for the purpose of 
destroying imperialism.

J. V. S T A L I N 60 
We must support every movement directed against 
imperialism. Otherwise what will the Finnish workers 
say of us? Pyatakov and Dzerzhinsky tell us that every 
national movement is a reactionary movement. That 
is not true, comrades. Is not the Irish movement against 
British imperialism a democratic movement which is 
striking a blow at imperialism? And ought we not to support 
that movement? 
First published in 
The Petrograd City and All- 
Russian Conference of the 
R.S.D.L.P.(B.) in April 1917, 
Moscow and Leningrad, 1925

LAGGING BEHIND THE REVOLUTION 
The revolution is advancing, growing deeper and 
wider, spreading from one sphere to another, and revolutionizing 
the whole social and economic life of the 
country from top to bottom. 
Invading industry, it is raising the demand for control 
and regulation of production by the workers (Donets 
Basin). 
Spreading to agriculture, it is giving an impetus to 
the collective cultivation of unused land and the supplying 
of implements and livestock to the peasantry (Schl¸sselburg 
Uyezd).18 
Exposing the ulcers of the war and the economic disruption 
produced by the war, it is bursting into the 
sphere of distribution and is raising the question, on 
the one hand, of the supply of food to the towns (food 
crisis), and, on the other, of the supply of manufactures 
to the rural districts (goods crisis). 
The solution of all these and similar urgent problems 
calls for a maximum display of initiative on the part of 
the revolutionary masses, the active intervention of the 
Soviets of Workersí Deputies in the work of building 
the new life, and, lastly, the transfer of full power to

J. V. S T A L I N 62 
the new class which is capable of leading the country on 
to the broad road of revolution. 
The revolutionary masses in the localities are already 
taking this road. In some places the revolutionary organizations 
have already taken power into their own hands 
(Urals, Schl¸sselburg), ignoring the so-called Committees 
of Public Salvation. 
Yet the Executive Committee of the Petrograd Soviet, 
which should be leading the revolution, is helplessly 
marking time, lagging behind and drifting away from 
the masses; and for the cardinal question of assuming 
full power i t is substituting the trivial question of 
ìcandidatesî to the Provisional Government. By lagging 
behind the masses, the Executive Committee is lagging 
behind the revolution and impeding its progress. 
Before us lie two documents of the Executive Committee: 
ìNotes for Workersí Delegates at the Frontî 
who are carrying presents to the soldiers, and an ìAppeal 
to the Soldiers at the Front.î And what do they 
show? Why, this same backwardness of the Executive 
Committee. For on the most important questions of the 
day the Executive Committee, in these documents, gives 
the most revolting, the most anti-revolutionary replies! 
The Question of the War 
While the Executive Committee was wrangling with 
the Provisional Government over annexations and indemnities, 
while the Provisional Government was manufacturing 
ìNotesî and the Executive Committee was gloating 
in the role of ìvictor,î and in the meantime the 
war of conquest was continuing as of old, life in the

LAGGING BEHIND THE REVOLUTION 63 
trenches, the real life of the soldiers, had developed a 
new means of struggleómass fraternization. Unquestionably, 
in itself, fraternization is only a spontaneous manifestation 
of the desire for peace. Nevertheless, if carried 
out deliberately and in organized fashion, fraternization 
may become a mighty instrument of the working 
class for revolutionizing the situation in the warring 
countries. 
And what is the attitude of the Executive Committee 
towards fraternization? 
Listen: 
ìSoldier comrades, you will not get peace by fraternization. . . . 
Those who tell you that fraternization is the way to peace are 
leading you to your doom, and to the doom of Russian liberty. 
Donít believe themî (see the ìAppealî). 
Instead of fraternization, the Executive Committee 
urges the soldiers ìnot to reject the offensive operations 
which the military situation may demandî (see the 
ìAppealî). It transpires that ìdefence in the political 
sense does not preclude strategical offensives, the occupation 
of new sectors, etc. In the interests of defence . . . 
it is absolutely necessary to conduct an offensive, to 
occupy new positionsî (see the ìNotesî). 
In short, in order to achieve peace it is necessary to 
start an offensive and capture ìsectorsî of enemy territory. 
That is how the Executive Committee argues. 
But what is the difference between these imperialist 
arguments of the Executive Committee and General 
Alexeyevís counter-revolutionary ìorder of the day,î 
which declares fraternization at the front to be ìtrea

J. V. S T A L I N 64 
son,î and orders the soldiers ìto fight the enemy unmercifullyî? 
Or again: what is the difference between these arguments 
and Milyukovís counter-revolutionary speech at the 
conference in the Mariinsky Palace, in which he demanded 
ìoffensive operationsî and discipline from the soldiers 
in the interests of a ìunited frontî? 
The Question of the Land 
Everybody knows about the conflict that has arisen 
between the peasants and the Provisional Government. 
The peasants demand the immediate ploughing of land 
left uncultivated by the landlords, considering this step 
to be the only means of ensuring bread both for the 
population in the rear and for the army at the front. 
In reply, the Provisional Government has declared resolute 
war on the peasants, condemning the agrarian 
movement as ìunlawfulî; moreover, commissars have 
been sent to the localities to protect the landlordsí interests 
from ìinfringementî on the part of ìusurpingî 
peasants. The Provisional Government has ordered the 
peasants to refrain from confiscating land until the Constituent 
Assembly meets: it, forsooth, will settle everything.
And what is the attitude of the Executive Committee 
to this question? Whom does it supportóthe peasants 
or the Provisional Government? 
Listen to this: 
ìThe revolutionary democracy will most emphatically insist 
upon . . . the alienation without compensation . . . of the 
landed estates . . . in the future Constituent Assembly. At present,

LAGGING BEHIND THE REVOLUTION 65 
however, bearing in mind that immediate confiscation of the landed 
estates may cause . . . serious economic disturbances in the 
country . . . the revolutionary democracy warns the peasants 
against any unauthorized settlement of the land question, for 
agrarian disorders will benefit not the peasantry, but the counterrevolutionî; 
in view of this, it is recommended that ìthe landlordsí 
property should not be seized arbitrarily until the Constituent 
Assembly decidesî (see the ìNotesî). 
That is what the Executive Committee says. 
Evidently, the Executive Committee supports not 
the peasants, but the Provisional Government. 
Is it not clear that in taking such a stand the Executive 
Committee is espousing Shingaryovís counter-revolutionary 
cry: ìCurb the peasants!î? 
And, generally speaking, since when have agrarian 
movements become ìagrarian disorders,î and since when 
has the ìunauthorized settlementî of questions become 
inadmissible? What are the Soviets, including the Petrograd 
Soviet, if not organizations of ìunauthorizedî 
origin? Does the Executive Committee think that the 
time for ìunauthorizedî organizations and decisions has 
passed? 
The Executive Committee raises the bogey of a ìfood 
crisisî in connection with the unauthorized ploughing 
up of landed estates. But with a view to increasing 
the food resources of the population the ìunauthorizedî 
Schl¸sselburg Uyezd Revolutionary Committee has 
resolved: 
ìIn order to increase the supply of cereals of which there 
is a really great need, the village communities should plough up 
uncultivated land belonging to churches, monasteries, former 
appanages and private owners.î

J. V. S T A L I N 66 
What objection can the Executive Committee have 
to this ìunauthorizedî decision? 
What can i t offer in place of this wise decision 
except empty talk about ìusurpation,î ìagrarian disorders,î 
ìunauthorized settlement,î etc., borrowed from 
the ukases of Mr. Shingaryov? 
Is it not clear that the Executive Committee is lagging 
behind the revolutionary movement in the provinces, 
and, by lagging behind it, has come into conflict 
with it? 
A new picture is thus unfolding. The revolution is 
growing in breadth and depth, spreading to new spheres, 
invading industry, agriculture and the sphere of distribution, 
and raising the question of taking over full power. 
The movement is being led by the provinces. Whereas 
Petrograd led in the early days of the revolution, it is 
now beginning to lag behind. And one gets the impression 
that the Petrograd Executive Committee is trying 
to halt at the point already reached. 
But it is impossible to halt in a period of revolution: 
you have to moveóeither forward or backward. Therefore, 
whoever tries to halt in time of revolution must 
inevitably lag behind. And whoever lags behind receives 
no mercy: the revolution pushes him into the camp of 
counter-revolution. 
Pravda, No. 48, 
May 4, 1917 
Signed: K. Stalin

WHAT DID WE EXPECT 
FROM THE CONFERENCE? 
Our Party is a union of Social-Democrats of all parts 
of Russia, from Petrograd to the Caucasus, from Riga to 
Siberia. 
This union was formed for the purpose of helping 
the toilers to wage a successful struggle against the rich, 
against the factory owners and landlords, for a better lot, 
for socialism. 
But the fight can be successfully waged only if our 
Party is united and solid, only if it has one soul and one 
will, only if it strikes in concert everywhere, in all parts 
of Russia. 
But how is the unity and solidarity of the Party to 
be achieved? 
There is only one way of achieving i t , and that 
is for the elected representatives of the class-conscious 
workers of all Russia to assemble in one place in order 
jointly to discuss the fundamental problems of our 
revolution, to work out one common opinion and then, 
after returning to their homes, to go among the people 
and to lead them to one common goal by one common 
road. 
Such an assembly is called a conference.

J. V. S T A L I N 68 
That is why we all so impatiently looked forward to 
the convocation of the All-Russian Conference of the 
Russian Social-Democratic Labour Party. 
Before the revolution our Party led an underground 
existence; it was a prohibited party; its members were 
liable to arrest and deportation to penal servitude. That 
is why it was organized in such a way as to be adapted 
for underground work; it was a ìsecretî party. 
Now circumstances have changed; the revolution has 
brought liberty, the underground has disappeared, and 
our Party had to become an open party, had to reorganize 
on new lines. 
We are confronted with the question of war or peace. 
The war has carried off millions of lives, and will carry 
off millions more. The war is ruining millions of families. 
It has reduced our cities to starvation and exhaustion. 
It has deprived the rural districts of the most essential 
goods. The war is profitable only to the rich, who are 
filling their pockets on government contracts. The war is 
profitable only to the governments which are plundering 
other peoples. It is for the purpose of such plunder that 
the war is being waged. And so the question arises: What 
is to be done about the war? Shall it be stopped or continued? 
Shall we crawl further into the noose or break 
it once and for all? 
The conference had to answer this question. 
Further, Russiaóthe rear as well as the frontóis 
faced with starvation. But starvation will be thrice as 
severe unless all ìvacantî land is ploughed immediately. 
Yet the landlords are letting the land go uncultivated, 
are refraining from planting it, and the Provisional 
Government is forbidding the peasants to take over the

WHAT DID WE EXPECT FROM THE CONFERENCE? 69 
landed estates and cultivate them. . . . What is to be 
done with a Provisional Government which is supporting 
the landlords in every way it can? What is to be done 
with the landlords themselves? Shall they be allowed 
to retain the land, or shall it be made the property of the 
people? 
To all these questions the conference had to give 
clear and distinct answers. 
For only such answers make the Party united and 
solid. 
Only a united party can lead the people to victory. 
Has the conference justified our hopes? 
Has it given clear and distinct answers? Let the 
comrades study the decisions of the conference, which 
we published as a supplement to No. 13 of our paper,19 
and judge for themselves. 
Soldatskaya Pravda, No. 16, 
May 6, 1917 
Editorial 
Signed: K. Stalin

THE MUNICIPAL ELECTION CAMPAIGN20 
The elections to the district Dumas are approaching. 
The lists of candidates have been adopted and published. 
The election campaign is in full swing. 
Candidates are being put up by the most diverse ìpartiesî: 
genuine and fictitious, old and new-baked, significant 
and insignificant. Alongside the Constitutional- 
Democratic Party there is a ìParty of Honesty, Responsibility 
and Justiceî; alongside the Yedinstvo group and 
the Bund there is a ìparty slightly to the Left of the Constitutional 
Democratsî; alongside the Menshevik and 
Socialist-Revolutionary defencists there are all sorts 
of ìnon-partyî and ìsupra-partyî groups. The fantastic 
medley of flags is indescribable. 
The first election meetings already show that the 
central issue of the campaign is not municipal ìreformî 
in itself, but the general political situation in the 
country. Municipal reform is merely the background 
against which the principal political platforms naturally 
unfold. 
That is understandable. Today, when the war has 
brought the country to the verge of disruption, when the 
interests of the majority of the population demand revolutionary 
intervention in the whole economic life of the

THE MUNICIPAL ELECTION CAMPAIGN 71 
country, and when the Provisional Government is obviously 
incapable of leading the country out of the impasse, 
all local questions, including municipal, can be understood 
and decided only in inseparable connection with 
the general questions of war or peace, of revolution or 
counter-revolution. Without this connection with general 
policy, the municipal election campaign would degenerate 
into empty chatter about tin-plating washbasins 
and ìinstalling good lavatoriesî (see the platform 
of the defencist Mensheviks). 
That is why in this medley of innumerable party 
flags two basic political lines will inevitably assert 
themselves in the course of the campaign: the line of 
developing the revolution further, and the line of counter-
revolution. 
The sharper the campaign, the more trenchant will 
party criticism become, the more distinctly will these 
two lines stand out, the more untenable will be the position 
of the intermediate groups which are striving to 
reconcile the irreconcilable, and the clearer will it become 
to all that the Menshevik and Narodnik defencists 
who are sitting between the stools of revolution and 
counter-revolution are actually impeding the revolution 
and facilitating the cause of counter-revolution. 
* 
* 
* 
The Party of ìPopular Freedomî 
Since the overthrow of tsarism the parties of the 
Right have scattered. This is because their existence in 
their old form would not profit them now. What has

J. V. S T A L I N 72 
become of them? They have gathered around the party 
of so-called ìPopular Freedom,î around the party of 
Milyukov and Co. Milyukovís party is now the party 
of the most extreme Right. That is a fact which nobody 
disputes. And precisely for this reason that party is 
now the rallying centre of the counter-revolutionary 
forces. 
Milyukovís party is in favour of curbing the peasants, 
for it is in favour of suppressing the agrarian movement. 
Milyukovís party is in favour of curbing the workers, 
for it is opposed to the workersí ìexcessiveî demandsó 
it labels all their major demands ìexcessive.î 
Milyukovís party is in favour of curbing the soldiers, 
for it is in favour of ìiron discipline,î that is, of restoring 
the rule of the officers over the soldiers. 
Milyukovís party is in favour of the robber war 
which has brought the country to the verge of disruption 
and ruin. 
Milyukovís party is in favour of ìresolute measuresî 
against the revolution. It is ìresolutelyî opposed to 
popular freedom, even though it calls itself the party of 
ìPopular Freedom.î 
Can there be any hope that such a party will reform 
the cityís municipal affairs in the interests of the poorer 
sections of the population? 
Can it be entrusted with the fate of the city? 
Never! Under no circumstances! 
Our watchword is: No confidence in Milyukovís 
party; not a single vote for the Party of ìPopular 
Freedomî! 
* 
* 
*

THE MUNICIPAL ELECTION CAMPAIGN 73 
The Russian Social-Democratic 
Labour Party (Bolsheviks) 
Our Party is the very antithesis of the Constitutional 
Democratic Party. The Cadets [Constitutional Democrats] 
are the party of the counter-revolutionary bourgeois 
and landlords. Our Party is the party of the revolutionary 
workers of town and country. They are two irreconcilable 
parties; the victory of one means the defeat of 
the other. Our demands are well known. Our path is 
clear. 
We are opposed to the present war because it is a war 
of robbery, a war of conquest. 
We are in favour of peace, a general and democratic 
peace, because such a peace is the surest way of escape 
from the disruption of the countryís economy and food 
supply. 
There are complaints of a shortage of bread in the 
towns. But there is no bread because the crop area has 
diminished owing to the shortage of labour, which has 
been ìdriven offî to the war. There is no bread because 
there are no means of transporting even the supplies 
that are available, since the railways are engaged in 
serving the war. Stop the war and there will be bread. 
There are complaints of a shortage of manufactured 
goods in the rural areas. But manufactured goods are 
lacking because a large number of the mills and factories 
are engaged on war production. Stop the war and there 
will be manufactured goods. 
We are opposed to the present government because, 
by calling for an offensive, it is prolonging the war and 
aggravating the economic disruption and famine.

J. V. S T A L I N 74 
We are opposed to the present government because, 
by protecting the profits of the capitalists, it is hindering 
the revolutionary intervention of the workers in the economic 
life of the country. 
We are opposed to the present government because, 
by preventing the Peasant Committees from disposing 
of the landed estates, it is hindering the emancipation 
of the rural districts from the power of the landlords. 
We are opposed to the present government because, 
by starting the ìbusinessî with the withdrawal of the 
revolutionary troops from Petrograd, and proceeding now 
to withdraw the revolutionary workers (unburdening 
Petrograd!), it is dooming the revolution to impotence. 
We are opposed to the present government because 
it is generally incapable of leading the country out of 
the crisis. 
We are in favour of transferring all power to the 
revolutionary workers, soldiers and peasants. 
Only such a power can put an end to the long-protracted 
robber war. Only such a power can lay hands 
on the profits of the capitalists and landlords for the 
purpose of advancing the revolution and saving the 
country from utter disruption. 
Lastly, we are opposed to the restoration of the police 
force, the old detested police force, which was divorced 
from the people and subordinated to ìbigwigsî 
appointed from above. 
We are in favour of a universal, elected and recallable 
militia; for only such a militia can serve as a buttress 
of the peopleís interests. 
Such are our immediate demands.

THE MUNICIPAL ELECTION CAMPAIGN 75 
We assert that unless these demands are met, unless 
a fight is waged for these demands, not a single serious 
municipal reform and no democratization of municipal 
affairs is conceivable. 
Whoever wants to ensure bread for the people, whoever 
wants to abolish the housing crisis, whoever wants 
to impose municipal taxes only on the rich, whoever 
wants to see these reforms carried out not only in word 
but in deed, must vote for those who are opposed to the 
war of conquest, opposed to the landlord and capitalist 
government, opposed to the restoration of the police 
force, must vote for those who are in favour of a democratic 
peace, of the transfer of power to the people themselves, 
of a peopleís militia, of genuine democratization 
of municipal affairs. 
Without these conditions ìradical municipal reformî 
is just empty talk. 
* 
* 
* 
The Defencist Bloc 
Between the Cadets and our Party there are a number 
of intermediate groups which vacillate between revolution 
and counter-revolution. These are the Yedinstvo group, the 
Bund, the Menshevik and Socialist-Revolutionary defencists, 
the Trudoviks,21 the Popular ìSocialists.î22 In some 
districts they are putting up their candidates separately, 
but in others they have formed a bloc and have put up 
a joint list. Against whom have they formed this bloc? 
Ostensibly against the Cadets. But is this actually so? 
The first thing that strikes the eye is that this bloc 
is utterly unprincipled. What can there be in common,

J. V. S T A L I N 76 
for instance, between the bourgeois radical Trudovik 
group and the group of Menshevik defencists, who regard 
themselves as ìMarxistsî and ìSocialistsî? Since when 
have the Trudoviks, who preach war to a victorious 
finish, become the comrades-in-arms of the Mensheviks 
and Bundists, who call themselves ìZimmerwaldistsî 
who ìreject the warî? And the Yedinstvo group of 
Plekhanov, that self-same Plekhanov who already in 
tsarist days had furled the flag of the International 
and definitely taken his stand under an alien flag, the 
yellow flag of imperialismówhat can there be in common 
between this inveterate chauvinist and, say, Tsereteli 
the ìZimmerwaldist,î the honorary chairman of the 
Menshevik defencist conference? Is it so long since that 
Plekhanov was urging support of the tsarist government 
in the war against Germany and Tsereteli the ìZimmerwaldistî 
was ìthunderingî against the chauvinist Plekhanov 
for doing so? The war between the Yedinstvo group 
and Rabochaya Gazeta23 is at its height, but these 
worthies pretend to be blind to it and are already beginning 
to ìfraternize.î . . . 
Is it not obvious that elements so heterogeneous 
could form only a casual and unprincipled blocóthat 
it was not principle, but fear of defeat that prompted 
them to form the bloc? 
The next thing that strikes the eye is the fact that 
in two of the districts, Kazan and Spass (see the ìLists 
of Candidatesî), the Yedinstvo group, the Bund and the 
Menshevik and Socialist-Revolutionary defencists are not 
putting up any candidates, but the Soviets of Workersí 
and Soldiersí Deputies in these districts, and in these districts 
only, are putting forward candidates, contrary to

THE MUNICIPAL ELECTION CAMPAIGN 77 
the decision of the Executive Committee. Evidently, our 
brave bloc-formers, fearing defeat at the polls, prefer 
to hide behind the back of the district Soviets and have 
decided to exploit their prestige. It is amusing to note 
that these honourable gentlemen, who boast of their 
sense of ìresponsibility,î lack the courage to come out 
with open visor and timidly prefer to evade ìresponsibility.î 
. . . 
But what, after all, has united all these heterogeneous 
groups in one bloc? 
The fact that all of them with equal uncertainty, 
but none the less persistently, follow in the footsteps 
of the Cadets, and that they all with equal positiveness 
detest our Party. 
All of them, like the Cadets, are in favour of the 
warónot for purposes of conquest (God forbid!), but 
for a . . . ìpeace without annexations and indemnities.î 
A war for peace. . . . 
All of them, like the Cadets, are in favour of ìiron 
disciplineîónot for the purpose of curbing the soldiers 
(of course not!), but in the interests of . . . the soldiers 
themselves. 
All of them, like the Cadets, are in favour of an offensiveó
not in the interests of the British and French bankers 
(God forbid!), but in the interests of . . . ìour newwon 
freedom.î 
All of them, like the Cadets, are opposed to the ìanarchist 
leaning of the workers to seize the factoriesî 
(see Rabochaya Gazeta, May 21),ónot in the interests 
of the capitalists (perish the thought!), but in order not to 
frighten the capitalists away from the revolution, that 
is, in the interests of . . . the revolution.

J. V. S T A L I N 78 
In general, they are all in favour of the revolutionó 
but only in so far (in so far!) as it does not injure the 
capitalists and landlords, does not run counter to their 
interests. 
In short, they are all in favour of the same practical 
steps as the Cadets, but with reservations and catchwords 
about ìfreedom,î ìrevolution,î etc. 
But as phrasemongering and catchwords are nothing 
but words, it follows that in fact they are pursuing the 
same line as the Cadets. 
Their talk about freedom and socialism merely masks 
the fact that they are Cadet at heart. 
And precisely for this reason their bloc is spearheaded 
not against the counter-revolutionary Cadets, but 
against the revolutionary workers, against the bloc between 
our Party, the Mezhrayontsi24 and the revolutionary 
Mensheviks. 
After all that, can it be expected that these near- 
Cadet gentlemen will be capable of reforming and reorganizing 
our dislocated municipal affairs? 
How can they be entrusted with the fate of the poorer 
sections of the population when they hourly trample upon 
their interests and support the robber war and the government 
of the capitalists and landlords? 
If municipal affairs are to be democratized, if the 
population is to be ensured food and housing, if the 
poor are to be relieved of municipal taxes and the whole 
burden of taxation laid upon the rich, the policy of 
compromise must be abandoned, and hands must be 
laid on the profits of the capitalists and houseowners. . . . 
Is it not clear that the moderate gentlemen of the defencist 
bloc, since they are afraid of rousing the ire

THE MUNICIPAL ELECTION CAMPAIGN 79 
of the bourgeoisie, are incapable of such revolutionary 
steps? . . . 
In the present Petrograd Duma there is the so-called 
ìSocialist Municipal Group,î consisting mainly of defencist 
Socialist-Revolutionaries and Mensheviks. That 
group set up a ìfinance committeeî from among 
its members for the purpose of framing ìimmediate 
measuresî for the improvement of municipal affairs. And 
what do we find? These ìreformersî arrived at the conclusion 
that in order to democratize municipal affairs 
it was necessary: 1) ìto increase the water rate,î 2) ìto 
increase tramway fares.î ìOn the question of charging 
soldiers for tramway fares it was decided to confer with 
the Soviet of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputiesî (see 
Novaya Zhizn,25 No. 26). Apparently the members of 
the committee had the idea of demanding fares from soldiers, 
but were afraid to do so without the soldiersí 
consent. 
Instead of abolishing taxes on the poor, the worthy 
members of the committee decided to increase them, not 
sparing even the soldiers! 
These are examples of the municipal practices of 
the Socialist-Revolutionary and Menshevik defencists. 
Is it not clear that the pompous phrases and pretentious 
ìmunicipal platformsî serve as a mask for 
the wretched municipal practices of the defencists? 
So it was, so it will be. . . . 
The more adroitly they mask themselves with talk 
of ìfreedomî and ìrevolution,î the more determinedly 
and ruthlessly must they be fought. 
And so, one of the immediate tasks of the present campaign 
is to tear the socialist mask from the defencist

J. V. S T A L I N 80 
bloc, to bring its essentially bourgeois-Cadet nature into 
the light of day. 
No support for the defencist bloc! No confidence in 
the gentry of this bloc! 
The workers must realize that those who are not with 
them are against them; that the defencist bloc is not 
with themóconsequently, it is against them. 
* 
* 
* 
The ìNon-partyî Groups 
Of all the bourgeois groups which are putting up 
their own lists of candidates, the non-party groups 
occupy the most indefinite position. There are quite a 
few of these non-party groups, in fact, a whole heap 
of themónearly thirty in all. And whom do they not 
embrace! The ìUnited House Committeesî and the ìEducational 
Establishment Employeesí Groupî; the ìNonparty 
Business Groupî and the ìNon-party Electorsí 
Groupî; the ìHouse Superintendentsí Groupî and the 
ìApartment Ownersí Societyî; the ìSupra-party Republican 
Groupî and the ìEqual Rights for Women Leagueî 
the ìEngineersí Union Groupî and the ìCommercial 
and Industrial Unionî; the ìHonesty, Responsibility 
and Justice Groupî and the ìDemocratic Construction 
Groupî; the ìFreedom and Order Group,î etc., etc.ó 
such is the motley picture of non-party confusion. 
Who are they, where do they hail from, and whither 
are they bound? 
They are all bourgeois groups. For the most part they 
are comprised of merchants, manufacturers, houseowners, 
members of the ìliberal professions,î intellectuals.

THE MUNICIPAL ELECTION CAMPAIGN 81 
They have no set principles. The electors will never 
know what these groups which are inviting the man in 
the street to vote for them are out for. 
They have no municipal platform. The electors will 
never know what improvements they demand in the 
sphere of municipal affairs and, indeed, why they should 
vote for them at all. 
They have no past, because they did not exist in the 
past. 
They have no future, because they will vanish after 
the elections like the snows of yesteryear. 
They sprang up only during the elections, and are living 
only for the moment, as long as the elections last; 
their aim is to get into the district Dumas somehow, 
and what happens after that they donít care a hang. 
They are bourgeois groups who have no programs 
and who fear the light and the truth, and who are trying 
to get their candidates into the district Dumas by contraband 
means. 
Dark are their aims, and dark is their path. 
What justifies the existence of these groups? 
One could understand the existence of non-party 
groups in the past, under tsarism, when belonging to a 
party, to a Left party, was ruthlessly punished by ìlaw,î 
when many had to come out as non-party in order to 
avoid arrest and persecution, when not to belong to a party 
was a shield against the tsarist zealots of the law. But 
how can the existence of non-party groups be justified 
now, when a maximum of freedom prevails, when every 
party can come out openly and freely without fear of 
prosecution, when a definite party stand and an open 
struggle of political parties have become a commandment

J. V. S T A L I N 
FROM MARX 
TO MAO 
 
NOT FOR 
COMMERCIAL 
DISTRIBUTION 
82 
and a condition for the political education of the masses? 
What are they afraid of? From whom are they hiding 
their real face? 
Undoubtedly, many of the electors among the masses 
have not yet grasped the significance of the programs of 
the various political parties; the political conservatism 
and backwardness they have inherited from tsarism are 
a hindrance to their rapid enlightenment. But is it not 
obvious that non-party and programless electioneering 
tends only to perpetuate and legitimatize this backwardness 
and conservatism? Who would venture to deny 
that an open and honest struggle of political parties is 
a most effective means of awakening the masses and of 
quickening their political activity? 
Again we ask, what are these non-party groups 
afraid of? Why do they shun the light? From whom are 
they hiding, anyhow? What is the secret? 
The fact of the matter is that under the conditions 
now prevailing in Russia, with a rapidly developing 
revolution and a maximum of freedom, when the 
masses are growing in political enlightenment daily 
and even hourly, it is becoming extremely risky for the 
bourgeoisie to come out openly. To come out with a 
frankly bourgeois platform under such conditions is to 
court certain discredit in the eyes of the masses. The 
only way of ìsaving the situationî is to don a non-party 
mask and pretend to be an inoffensive group like the 
group of ìhonesty, responsibility and justice.î This 
is very convenient for fishing in troubled waters. There 
can be no doubt that pro-Cadet and near-Cadet bourgeois 
who fear to fight with open visor are trying to slip into 
the district Dumas under cover of non-party lists.

THE MUNICIPAL ELECTION CAMPAIGN 83 
It is characteristic that there is not a single proletarian 
group among them, that all these non-party groups 
are recruited from the ranks of the bourgeoisie, and from 
its ranks only. And they will undoubtedly succeed in 
drawing quite a number of confiding and simple-minded 
electors into their net unless they meet with a proper 
rebuff from the revolutionary elements. 
That is the whole secret. 
Hence, the ìnon-partyî danger is one of the most 
serious in the present municipal elections. 
It is therefore one of the most important tasks of our 
campaign to tear the non-party mask from the faces of 
these gentry, to compel them to show their true countenance, 
so as to enable the masses to appraise them 
correctly. 
Away with the non-party mask! Let us have a clear 
and definite political line! Such is our watchword. 
* 
* 
* 
Comrades, tomorrow is polling day. March to the 
polls in serried ranks and vote solidly for the Bolshevik 
list!
Not a single vote for the Cadets, the enemies of the 
Russian revolution! 
Not a single vote for the defencists, the advocates 
of compromise with the Cadets! 
Not a single vote for the ìnon-partyî candidates, 
the masked friends of your enemies! 
Pravda, Nos. 63, 64 and 66. 
May 21, 24 and 26, 1917 
Signed: K. Stalin

YESTERDAY AND TODAY 
(Crisis of the Revolution) 
Before resigning from the Provisional Government, 
Guchkov and Milyukov presented three demands: 1) restoration 
of discipline, 2) proclamation of an offensive, 
3) curbing of the revolutionary internationalists. 
The army is disintegrating, order no longer exists 
in it; restore discipline, curb the propaganda for peace, 
otherwise we resignóthus Guchkov ìreportedî to the 
Executive Committee at the conference in the Mariinsky 
Palace (April 20). 
We are bound to our allies, they demand our assistance 
in the interests of a united front; call upon the army 
to start an offensive, curb the opponents of the war, otherwise 
we resignóthus Milyukov ìreportedî at the same 
conference. 
That was in the days of the ìcrisis of power.î 
The Mensheviks and Socialist-Revolutionaries on the 
Executive Committee pretended they would not yield. 
Thereupon Milyukov published a document ìexplainingî 
his ìNoteî; the orators of the Executive Committee 
proclaimed this a ìvictoryî for ìrevolutionary democracy,î 
andóìpassions subsided.î 
But the ìvictoryî proved an imaginary one. A few 
days later a new ìcrisisî was announced; Guchkov and

YESTERDAY AND TODAY 85 
Milyukov ìhadî to resign; endless conferences took place 
between the Executive Committee and the Ministers andó 
ìthe crisis was resolvedî by representatives of the Executive 
Committee entering the Provisional Government. 
Credulous onlookers sighed with relief. At last Guchkov 
and Milyukov were ìvanquishedî! At last peace 
would come, peace ìwithout annexations and indemnitiesî! 
The fratricidal slaughter was going to end! 
But what happened? The tally of the ìvictoriesî of 
the so-called ìdemocracyî had scarcely been counted, 
the ìobsequiesî over the retired Ministers had scarcely 
been read, when the new Ministers, the ìsocialistî 
Ministers, began to talk in a tone soothing to the ear of 
Guchkov and Milyukov! 
Verily, ìthe dead have laid hold on the livingî! 
Judge for yourselves. 
In his very first speech, at the Peasant Congress,26 
the new War Minister, citizen Kerensky, declared that 
he intended to restore ìiron disciplineî in the army. 
What sort of discipline he meant is definitely indicated 
in the ìDeclaration of Rights of the Soldier,î27 signed 
by Kerensky, which lays down that under ìbattle conditionsî 
commanders have ìthe right to employ armed 
force . . . against subordinates who refuse to obey ordersî 
(see clause 14 of the ìDeclarationî). 
That which Guchkov dreamed of but did not dare 
to execute, Kerensky has ìexecutedî at one stroke, under 
cover of high-sounding, phrases about liberty, equality 
and justice. 
What is it needed for, this discipline? 
The first Minister to enlighten us on this point was 
Minister Tsereteli. ìWe are striving to end the war,î he

J. V. S T A L I N 86 
told post-office employees, ìnot by means of a separate 
peace, but by a joint victory with our Allies over the enemies 
of libertyî (see Vechernaya Birzhovka,28 May 8). 
If we disregard the word ìliberty,î which was stuck 
in simply for effect, if we translate this ministeriallynebulous 
speech into plain language, it can mean only 
one thing: in the interests of peace we must, in alliance 
with Britain and France, smash Germany, and for this, 
in turn, we must have an offensive. 
That is what ìiron disciplineî is needed foróin 
order to prepare an offensive in the interests of a united 
front for a joint victory over Germany. 
That which Milyukov so timidly but so persistently 
strove for, Minister Tsereteli has proclaimed his own 
program. 
That was in the early days following the ìresolvingî 
of the crisis. Later the ìsocialistî Ministers became 
bolder and more outspoken. 
On May 12 Kerensky issued his ìorder of the dayî 
to the officers, soldiers and sailors: 
ì. . . You will march forward, to where your leaders and 
your government lead you. . . . You will march . . . bound by 
the discipline of duty. . . . It is the will of the people that you 
purge our country and the world of tyrants and invaders. That 
is the heroic feat I call upon you to performî (see Rech, May 14). 
Is it not obvious that, essentially, Kerenskyís order 
differs very little from the imperialist orders of the tsarist 
government, like the one that said: ìWe must fight 
the war to a victorious finish, we must drive the insolent 
enemy from our land, we must deliver the world 
from the yoke of German militarism . . .î and so on.

YESTERDAY AND TODAY 87 
And as it is easier to talk about an offensive than 
to conduct one, and as some of the regiments of the Seventh 
Army (four of them), for example, did not deem 
it possible to obey the ìoffensiveî order, the Provisional 
Government, together with Kerensky, passed from words 
to ìdeeds,î and ordered the ìinsubordinateî regiments 
to be disbanded immediately and threatened the culprits 
with ìdeportation to penal servitude with forfeiture of 
all property rightsî (see Vecherneye Vremya, June 1). And 
as all that too proved inadequate, Kerensky delivered 
himself of another ìorder,î this time expressly directed 
against fraternization, threatening to have the ìculpritsî 
ìtried and punished with the utmost rigour of the law,î 
that is, penal servitude again (see Novaya Zhizn, June 1). 
In short, the purport of Kerenskyís ìordersî is: attack 
immediately, attack at all costs, otherwise we send you 
to penal servitude, or put you before a firing squad. 
And this at a time when the tsarist treaties with the 
British and French bourgeoisie remain in force, when 
on the basis of these treaties ìweî are being definitely 
forced actively to support the annexationist policy of 
Britain and France in Mesopotamia, in Greece, in Alsace- 
Lorraine! 
Well, but what about a peace without annexations 
and indemnities? What about the pledge given by the new 
Provisional Government to take all ìresolute measuresî 
to achieve peace? What has become of all these promises 
made at the time of the ìcrisis of powerî? 
Oh, our Ministers have not forgotten about peace, 
about peace without annexations and indemnities; they 
t-a-l-k about it very volubly, talk and write, write and 
talk. And not only our Ministers. Only the other day, in

J. V. S T A L I N 88 
reply to the request of the Provisional Government to 
declare their war aims, the British and French governments 
announced that they, too, were opposed to annexations, 
but . . . only to the extent that this did not 
militate against the annexation of Alsace-Lorraine, 
Mesopotamia, etc. And the Provisional Government, in its 
Note of May 31 in reply to this declaration, stated in 
its turn that ìremaining unswervingly loyal to the common 
cause of the Allies,î it proposed ìa conference of 
representatives of the Allied Powers to be convened in 
the near future, as soon as conditions permit,î for the 
purpose of revising the agreement on war aims (see 
Rabochaya Gazeta, No. 72). Well, as nobody knows yet 
when ìconditions will permit,î and as this so-called 
ìnear futureî will at any rate not be soon, it follows 
that, in fact, the ìresolute struggleî for a peace without 
annexations is being postponed indefinitely, is degenerating 
into hollow and hypocritical prating about peace. 
But an offensive, it appears, cannot be postponed for 
a single moment, and all ìresolute measuresî are being 
taken to launch it, up to and including threats of penal 
servitude and firing squads. . . . 
There is no possible room for doubt. The war has 
been and remains an imperialist war. The talk about 
peace without annexations in the face of the actual preparations 
for an offensive is only a mask to conceal the 
predatory character of the war. The Provisional Government 
has definitely taken the path of active imperialism. 
That which only yesterday seemed impossible has become 
possible today, thanks to the entry of ìSocialistsî 
into the Provisional Government. By masking the imperialist 
nature of the Provisional Government with their

YESTERDAY AND TODAY 89 
socialist phrasemongering they have strengthened and 
broadened the positions of the rising counter-revolution. 
The position now is that ìsocialistî Ministers are 
being successfully utilized by the imperialist bourgeoisie 
for their counter-revolutionary purposes. 
It is not the naive ìrevolutionary democratsî who 
are victorious, but those old hands at the imperialist 
game, Guchkov and Milyukov. 
But lining up with the Right in foreign policy must 
inevitably lead to a similar turn in home policy; for in 
the midst of a world war foreign policy is the basis for 
all other policy, the hub of the whole life of the state. 
And, indeed, the Provisional Government is more and 
more definitely taking the path of a ìresolute struggleî 
against the revolution. 
Only very recently it launched an offensive against 
the Kronstadt sailors, and at the same time prevented 
the peasants of the Petrograd Uyezd and the Penza, 
Voronezh and other gubernias from applying the elementary 
principles of democracy. 
And several days ago Skobelev and Tsereteli made 
themselves famous (in the Herostratian sense!) by deporting 
Robert Grimm29 from Russia, without trial, it is 
true, and simply by police order, but to the glee of the 
Russian imperialists. 
But the Provisional Governmentís new line of home 
policy has been most graphically reflected by Minister 
Pereverzev (ìalsoî a Socialist!). He demands nothing 
more nor less than the ìspeedy enactment of a law 
concerning crimes against the tranquility of the state.î 
Under this law (Article 129) ìany person guilty of 
inciting publicly or in printed matter, letters or graphic

J. V. S T A L I N 90 
representations distributed or publicly displayed 1) to 
the commission of any felony, 2) to the commission of 
acts of violence by one section of the population against 
another, or 3) to disobedience of or resistance to the law or 
mandatory decisions or lawful orders of the authorities 
shall be liable to confinement in a house of correction for 
a period of up to three years,î and ìin time of war . . . 
to a term of penal servitudeî (see Rech, June 4). 
Such is the creative effort in the realm of penal legislation 
of this allegedly ìsocialistî Minister. 
Obviously, the Provisional Government is steadily 
slipping into the embrace of the counter-revolutionaries. 
That is also evident from the fact that in this connection 
that old hand at counter-revolution, Milyukov, 
is already smacking his lips at the prospect of another 
victory. ìIf the Provisional Government,î he says, ìhas 
after long delay at last understood that the authorities 
possess other means besides persuasion, those very 
means they have already begun to employóif it takes this 
path, then the conquests of the Russian revolutionî (don ët 
laugh!) ìwill be consolidated.î . . . ìOur Provisional 
Government has arrested Kolyshko and deported Grimm. 
But Lenin, Trotsky and their comrades are s t i l l at 
large. . . . Our wish is that at some time or other Lenin 
and his comrades will be sent to the same placeî . . . 
(see Rech, June 4). 
Such are the ìwishesî of that old fox of the Russian 
bourgeoisie, Mr. Milyukov. 
Whether the Provisional Government will meet these 
and similar ìwishesî of Milyukov, to whose voice it generally 
lends an attentive ear, and whether such ìwishesî 
are now realizable at all, the near future will show.

YESTERDAY AND TODAY 91 
But one thing is beyond doubt: the Provisional Governmentís 
home policy is entirely subordinated to the 
requirements of its active imperialist policy. 
There is only one conclusion. 
The development of our revolution has entered a 
period of crisis. The new stage in the revolution, which is 
forcing its way into all spheres of economic life and revolutionizing 
them from top to bottom, is rousing all the 
forces of the old and the new world. The war and the economic 
disruption resulting from it are intensifying class 
antagonisms to the utmost. The policy of compromise with 
the bourgeoisie, the policy of zigzagging between revolution 
and counter-revolution, is becoming obviously unfeasible. 
One thing or the other: 
Either forward against the bourgeoisie, and for transfer 
of power to the working people, termination of the 
war and economic disruption, and organization of production 
and distribution; 
Or backward with the bourgeoisie, for an offensive 
and prolongation of the war, against resolute measures 
for elimination of economic disruption, for 
anarchy in production, and for a frankly counter-revolutionary 
policy. 
The Provisional Government is definitely taking the 
path of outright counter-revolution. 
It is the duty of revolutionaries to close their ranks 
and drive the revolution forward. 
Soldatskaya Pravda, No. 42, 
June 13, 1917 
Signed: K. Stalin

AGAINST ISOLATED DEMONSTRATIONS 
Several days ago the Provisional Government ordered 
the Anarchists to be evicted from the Durnovo villa. 
This essentially unjust order roused a storm of 
indignation among the workers. They undoubtedly 
regarded it as an attack on the right of existence of this 
or that organization. We are opposed to the Anarchists 
in principle; but inasmuch as they are supported by a 
section of the workers, however small, they have as much 
right to exist as, say, the Mensheviks and the Socialist- 
Revolutionaries. To that extent the workers were right 
in protesting against the Provisional Governmentís attacks, 
the more so that, apart from the Anarchists, the 
villa is being used by representatives of several factories 
and trade unions. 
Our readers know that by their protest the workers 
compelled the Provisional Government to yield and to 
leave them in possession of the villa. 
It now transpires that a new workersí demonstration 
is being ìorganizedî at the Durnovo villa. 
We are informed that meetings of factory committee 
representatives, headed by the Anarchists, are taking 
place at the villa with a view to organizing a 
demonstration today. If this is true, then we declare that

AGAINST ISOLATED DEMONSTRATIONS 93 
we most emphatically condemn all isolated, anarchic 
demonstrations. We regard demonstrations of separate 
districts or regiments headed by the Anarchists, who 
have no understanding of present conditions, demonstrations 
organized against the wishes of the majority of the 
districts and regiments, against the wishes of the Trade 
Union Bureau and the Central Council of Factory Committees, 
and, lastly, against the wishes of the socialist 
party of the proletariatówe regard such anarchic demonstrations 
as disastrous to the cause of the workersí 
revolution. 
It is right and necessary to defend the right of existence 
of organizations, including anarchist organizations, 
when attempts are made to deprive them of their premises. 
But to merge with the Anarchists and engage with them 
in reckless demonstrations which are doomed to failure 
beforehand is impermissible and criminal on the part of 
class-conscious workers. 
Our comrades, the workers and soldiers, should ponder 
the question well: what are they, Socialists or Anarchists? 
and if they are Socialists, let them decide for 
themselves whether they can march shoulder to shoulder 
with Anarchists in demonstrations which are obviously 
ill-considered and contrary to the decision of 
our Party. 
Comrades, by our attempt to demonstrate on June 10 
we got the Executive Committee and the Congress 
of Soviets30 to recognize the need for demonstrations. 
You no doubt know that the Congress of Soviets has 
appointed a general demonstration for June 18 and 
has declared in advance that there will be freedom of 
slogans.

J. V. S T A L I N 94 
It is now our task to see to it that the demonstration 
in Petrograd on June 18 marches under our revolutionary 
slogans. 
We must therefore nip in the bud every attempt at 
anarchic action, in order the more energetically to prepare 
for the demonstration on June 18. 
Oppose isolated demonstrations and support the general 
demonstration on June 18óthat is what we urge. 
Comrades, time is precious; do not lose a single 
moment! Let every factory, every district, every regiment 
and company prepare its banners inscribed with the 
slogans of the revolutionary proletariat. Let everyone 
get to work, comrades, let everyone prepare for the 
demonstration on June 18. 
Oppose anarchic demonstrations, support the general 
demonstration under the banner of the party of the 
proletariat. Such is our call. 
Pravda, No. 81, 
June 14, 1917 
Signed: K. Stalin

RESULTS OF THE PETROGRAD MUNICIPAL 
ELECTIONS 
The elections to the (twelve) district Dumas in Petrograd 
are over. The general returns and other materials 
have not yet been published; nevertheless, data already 
received from the districts enable us to construct a 
general picture of the course and outcome of the elections. 
Out of a total of more than a million electors, about 
800,000 went to the polls. That is an average of 70 per 
cent. The abstentions were therefore by no means ìominous.î 
The more proletarian sections of such districts 
as Neva and Narva (suburbs) have not yet been included 
in the city limits and were outside the electoral area. 
The electoral contest was waged not on local, municipal 
issues, as is ìusuallyî the case in Europe, but on fundamental 
political platforms. And this is quite understandable. 
At a time of extraordinary revolutionary upheaval, 
further complicated by war and economic disruption, 
when class antagonisms have been laid bare to 
the utmost, it is quite inconceivable that the election 
campaign could have been confined to local issues; the 
inseparable connection between local issues and the general 
political situation of the country was bound to 
come to the fore.

J. V. S T A L I N 96 
That is why the principal contest in the election was 
between three lists, corresponding to the three principal 
political platforms: the Cadets, the Bolsheviks and the 
defencists (the latter being a bloc of Narodniks, Mensheviks 
and the Yedinstvo). The non-party groups, which 
expressed political vagueness and lack of platform, were 
bound under such circumstances to carry no weight, 
and, in fact, carried none. 
The choice facing the voters was: 
Either backward, to a rupture with the proletariat 
and ìresolute measuresî against the revolution (Cadets); 
Or forward, to a rupture with the bourgeoisie, 
a resolute struggle against the counter-revolution, 
and the further development of the revolution (Bolsheviks); 
Or compromise with the bourgeoisie, a policy of zigzagging 
between revolution and counter-revolution, i.e., neither 
backward nor forward (defencist blocóMensheviks 
and Socialist-Revolutionaries). 
The electors have made their choice. Of the 800,000 
votes, over 400,000 were cast for the defencist bloc; the 
Cadets got a little over 160,000, without a majority in 
even a single district; the Bolsheviks received over 160,000 
votes, and in the most proletarian district of the capital, 
Vyborgskaya Storona, they obtained an absolute majority. 
The rest of the votes (inconsiderable) were distributed 
among the thirty-ìnon-party,î ìsupra-partyî and 
various other casual groups and formations. 
Such is the reply of the electorate. 
What does it show? 
The first thing that strikes one is the weakness, the 
puniness of the non-party groups. The elections have

RESULTS OF THE PETROGRAD MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS 97 
utterly refuted the fairy tale about the non-party 
ìnatureî of the average Russian citizen. The political 
backwardness which nourished the non-party groups 
has evidently retired into the limbo of the past. The 
mass of the electors have definitely taken the path of 
open political struggle. 
The second feature is the complete defeat of the Cadets. 
Wriggle as they may, the Cadets have to admit that 
in the first open battle under free elections they have been 
utterly routed, having failed to win a single district Duma. 
Only very recently the Cadets considered Petrograd 
their private domain. They declared time and again in 
their manifestoes that Petrograd ìhas confidence only 
in the Party of Popular Freedom,î and in proof of this 
they pointed to the State Duma elections under the law 
of June 3. It has now become absolutely clear that the 
Cadets reigned in Petrograd by the grace of the tsar and 
his electoral law. It was enough for the old regime to 
depart from the stage, and the ground under the feet of 
the Cadets disappeared instantaneously. 
In short, the mass of the democratic electors do not 
support the Cadets. 
The third feature is the undoubted growth of our 
forces, the forces of our Party, revealed by the elections. 
In Petrograd our Party has 23,000 to 25,000 members; 
Pravdaís circulation is from 90,000 to 100,000 copies, of 
which Petrograd alone accounts for 70,000; yet at the 
elections we obtained over 160,000 votes, i.e., seven 
times the number of members of our Party and twice 
the Pravda circulation in Petrograd. And that in spite 
of the diabolical hue and cry which practically the whole 
of the so-called press, from gutter-rags like Birzhovka

J. V. S T A L I N 98 
and Vechorka to the Ministerial Volya Naroda31 and Rabochaya 
Gazeta, raised against the Bolsheviks in order to 
terrorize the man in the street. Needless to say, under 
such circumstances only the most steadfast revolutionary 
elements, who were not to be scared by ìhorrors,î could 
have voted for our Party. These are, first of all, the 
leader of the revolution, the proletariat, which ensured us 
predominance in the Vyborg District Duma, and then the 
most loyal allies of the proletariat, the revolutionary 
regiments. It should also be noted that the free elections 
attracted to the polls new and broad sections of the population 
which had had no previous experience in the political 
struggle. These were, first of all, the women, and 
then the tens of thousands of minor officials who fill the 
government departments, and then the numerous ìsmall 
peopleîóartisans, shopkeepers, etc. We did not expect, 
and could not have expected, that these sections would 
be already able to break with the ìold worldî and resolutely 
adopt the point of view of the revolutionary 
proletariat. Yet it was they, after all, who decided the 
issue of the elections. If they could turn their backs on 
the Cadetsóas they didóthis in itself is a big step 
forward. 
In short, the mass of the electors have already abandoned 
the Cadets, but they have not yet come over to 
our Partyóthey have stopped halfway. On the other 
hand, the most resolute elementsóthe revolutionary proletariat 
and the revolutionary soldiersóhave already 
rallied around our Party. 
The mass of the electors have stopped halfway. And, 
having stopped halfway, they have found there a worthy 
leaderóthe Menshevik and Socialist-Revolutionary bloc.

RESULTS OF THE PETROGRAD MUNICIPAL ELECTIONS 99 
Not understanding the present-day situation, and floundering 
between the proletariat and the capitalists, the 
petty-bourgeois elector, once he had lost his faith in 
the Cadets, naturally gravitated towards the Mensheviks 
and Socialist-Revolutionaries who are totally confused 
and zigzag helplessly between revolution and 
counter-revolution. Like unto like! That is the 
whole explanation of the ìbrilliant victoryî of the 
defencist bloc. And that is the fourth feature of the 
elections. There can be no doubt that with the further 
growth of the revolution the blocís motley army will 
inevitably melt away, part going backward, to the 
Cadets, and part forward, to our Party. But meanwhileó
meanwhile the leaders of the bloc can rejoice 
over their ìvictory.î 
And the fifth and lastóbut not the least!ófeature 
of the elections is that they have concretely raised the 
question of who has the right to govern the country. The 
elections have definitely revealed that the Cadets are 
in the minority, for only with great difficulty did they 
muster 20 per cent of the votes. The overwhelming majority, 
more than 70 per cent, were cast for the Socialists 
of the Right and Left wings, i.e., for the Socialist-Revolutionaries 
and Mensheviks and for the Bolsheviks. It 
is said that the Petrograd municipal elections are the 
prototype of the future elections to the Constituent Assembly. 
But if this be true, is it not monstrous that the 
Cadets, who represent only a small minority of the country, 
should have an overwhelming majority in the Provisional 
Government? How can the predominance of the 
Cadets in the Provisional Government be tolerated when 
it is obvious that the majority of the population have

J. V. S T A L I N 100 
no confidence in them? Is not this inconsistency the reason 
for the growing discontent with the Provisional 
Government which is making itself more and more 
manifest in the country? 
Is it not clear that to permit this inconsistency to 
continue would be both unwise and undemocratic? 
Bulletin of the Press Bureau 
of the C.C., R.S.D.L.P., No. 1, 
June 15, 1917 
Signed: K. Stalin

TO ALL THE TOILERS, 
TO ALL THE WORKERS AND SOLDIERS 
OF PETROGRAD32 
Comrades, 
Russia is passing through sore trials. 
The war is still continuing and claiming countless 
lives. It is being deliberately prolonged by the scoundrels, 
the bloodsucking bankers, who grow fat on it. 
The industrial disruption caused by the war is leading 
to the stoppage of factories and to unemployment. It is 
being deliberately intensified by the lockout capitalists 
in their lust for fabulous profits. 
The food shortage caused by the war is becoming 
more and more ominous. High prices are strangling the 
urban poor. And prices are continually rising by the 
caprice of the marauding profiteers. 
The sinister phantom of hunger and ruin is staring us 
in the face. . . . 
Moreover, the black clouds of counter-revolution are 
gathering. 
The Duma of June the Third which helped the tsar to 
oppress the people, is now demanding an immediate 
offensive at the front. What for? In order to drown in 
blood the liberty we have won, in deference to the wishes 
of the ìAlliedî and Russian robbers. 
The Council of State, which supplied the tsar with 
hangmen-Ministers, is secretly splicing a treacherous

J. V. S T A L I N 102 
noose. What for? In order at a convenient moment to slip 
it around the necks of the people, in deference to the wishes 
of the ìAlliedî and Russian oppressors. 
And the Provisional Government, planted between 
the tsarist Duma and the Soviet, and including ten bourgeois 
in its number, is clearly falling under the sway of 
the landlords and capitalists. 
Instead of guarantees of the rights of the soldiers, 
we have Kerenskyís ìdeclarationî violating these 
rights. 
Instead of consolidation of the liberties won by the 
soldiers in the days of the revolution, we have new ìordersî 
threatening penal servitude and disbandment of 
army units. 
Instead of guarantees of the liberties won by the 
citizens of Russia, we have political espionage in the 
barracks, arrests without trial, new proposals for an 
Article 129, carrying the threat of penal servitude. 
Instead of the arming of the people, we have threats 
to disarm the workers and soldiers. 
Instead of liberation of the oppressed nationalities, 
we have a policy of pinpricks towards Finland and the 
Ukraine and fear of granting them their liberty. 
Instead of a resolute struggle against counter-revolution, 
we have connivance at the brazenness of the counterrevolutionaries, 
who are openly arming to fight the revolution. 
. . . 
And the war is still continuing, and no really serious 
measures are taken to stop it or to propose a just 
peace to all nations. 
The economic disruption grows worse and worse, and 
no measures are taken to cope with it.

TO ALL THE TOILERS 103 
Famine draws nearer and nearer, and no effective 
measures are taken to avert it. 
Is it surprising that the counter-revolutionaries are 
becoming more and more arrogant and are inciting the 
government to inflict further repressive measures on the 
workers and peasants, the soldiers and sailors? 
Comrades, these things can no longer be tolerated in 
silence! To remain silent after all this would be criminal! 
You are free citizens, you have the right to protest, 
and you must use that right before it is too late. 
Let tomorrow (June 18), the day of the peaceful 
demonstration, become a day of formidable protest on 
the part of revolutionary Petrograd against resurgent oppression 
and tyranny! 
Let the victorious banners wave tomorrow, to the 
dismay of the enemies of liberty and socialism! 
Let your call, the call of the champions of the revolution, 
resound through the world, to the joy of all the 
oppressed and enslaved! 
Over there, in the West, in the belligerent countries, 
the dawn of a new life, the dawn of the great workersí revolution 
is breaking. Let your brothers in the West know 
tomorrow that you have inscribed for them on your banners 
not war, but peace, not enslavement, but liberation! 
Workers, Soldiers, clasp hands in brotherhood and 
march forward beneath the banner of socialism! 
All out on the streets, comrades! 
Rally in a close ring around your banners! 
March in serried ranks through the streets of the 
capital! 
Calmly and confidently proclaim your wishes: 
Down with counter-revolution!

J. V. S T A L I N 104 
Down with the tsarist Duma! 
Down with the Council of State! 
Down with the ten capitalist Ministers! 
All power to the Soviets of Workersí, Soldiersí and 
Peasantsí Deputies! 
Revise the ìDeclaration of Rights of the Soldierî! 
Annul the ìordersî against the soldiers and sailors! 
Down with the disarming of the revolutionary workers! 
Long live a peopleís militia! 
Down with anarchy in industry and with the lockout 
capitalists! 
Long live control and organization of production and 
distribution! 
No policy of offensive! 
It is time to stop the war! Let the Soviet of Deputies 
announce just terms of peace! 
Neither a separate peace with Wilhelm, nor secret treaties 
with the French and British capitalists! 
B r e a d! P e a c e! L i b e r t y! 
Central Committee of the R.S.D.L.P. 
Petrograd Committee of the R.S.D.L.P. 
Army Organization of the Central Committee 
of the R.S.D.L.P. 
Central Council of Factory Committees 
of the City of Petrograd 
Bolshevik Group of the Petrograd Soviet 
of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies 
Pravda Editorial Board 
Soldatskaya Pravda Editorial Board 
Pravda, No. 84, 
June 17, 1917

AT THE DEMONSTRATION 
The day is bright and sunny. The column of demonstrators 
is endless. From morn to eve the procession files 
towards the Field of Mars. An endless forest of banners. 
All factories and establishments are closed. Traffic 
is at a standstill. The demonstrators march past the 
graves with banners lowered and the Marseillaise 
and the Internationale give place to You Have Fallen 
Victims. The air reverberates to the roar of voices. 
Every now and again resound the cries: ìDown with 
the ten capitalist Ministers!î ìAll power to the 
Soviet of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies!î And in 
response loud and approving cheers ring out from all 
sides. 
What strikes one most in surveying the demonstration 
is the absence of bourgeois and fellow travellers. 
Unlike the procession on the day of the funeral, when 
the workers were lost in a sea of tradesfolk and petty 
bourgeois, the demonstration of June 18 was essentially 
a proletarian demonstration, for workers and soldiers 
were its principal element. The Cadets had declared a 
boycott on the eve of the demonstration and, through 
their Central Committee, had urged ìabstentionî from

J. V. S T A L I N 106 
it. And, indeed, the bourgeois not only refrained from 
participating in itóthey literally hid themselves away. 
The Nevsky Prospect, usually so crowded and bustling, was 
on that day absolutely denuded of its bourgeois frequenters. 
In short, it was really a proletarian demonstration, 
a demonstration of the revolutionary workers, leading 
the revolutionary soldiers. 
An alliance of the workers and soldiers against the 
bourgeois, who had deserted the field, with the lower 
middle class remaining neutralósuch was the outward 
picture of the march of June 18. 
Not a Procession but a Demonstration 
The march of June 18 was not a simple promenade, 
a parade, as the procession on the day of the funeral undoubtedly 
was. It was a demonstration of protest, a demonstration 
of the virile forces of the revolution calculated 
to change the balance of forces. It is extremely characteristic 
that the demonstrators did not confine themselves 
merely to proclaiming their will, but demanded 
the immediate release of Comrade Khaustov,* former 
member of the staff of Okopnaya Pravda.33 We refer 
to the All-Russian Conference of Army Organizations 
of our Party, which took part in the demonstration and 
demanded of the Executive Committee, in the person 
of Chkheidze, the release of Comrade Khaustov; and 
* An ensign and a Social-Democratic Bolshevik, a namesake 
of the Social-Democratic Menshevik worker, former member 
of the Fourth State Duma.

AT THE DEMONSTRATION 107 
Chkheidze promised to take all measures to secure his release 
ìthis very day.î 
The whole character of the slogans, which expressed 
protest against the ìordersî of the Provisional Government 
and against its entire policy, showed without a 
doubt that the ìpeaceful procession,î which it was intended 
to turn into an innocent promenade, grew into 
a mighty demonstration of pressure upon the government. 
No Confidence 
in the Provisional Government 
A feature that struck the eye was the fact that not 
a single factory and not a single regiment displayed the 
slogan: ìConfidence in the Provisional Government!î 
Even the Mensheviks and Socialist-Revolutionaries forgot 
(or, rather, did not dare!) to display it. They had 
anything you pleaseóìNo split!î ìFor unity!î ìSupport 
the Soviet!î ìUniversal education!î (believe it or not!) 
óbut the chief thing was missing: there was no call for 
confidence in the Provisional Government, not even 
with the sly reservation ìto the extent that. . . .î Only 
three groups ventured to display the confidence slogan, 
but even they were made to repent it. These were a group 
of Cossacks, the Bund group and Plekhanovís Yedinstvo 
group. ìThe Holy Trinityîóthe workers on the Field 
of Mars ironically called them. Two of them (the Bund 
and the Yedinstvo) were compelled by the workers and 
soldiers to furl their banners amidst cries of ìDown 
with them!î The Cossacks, who refused to furl their banner, 
had it torn to shreds. And one anonymous ìconfidenceî 
streamer, stretched ìin the airî across the

J. V. S T A L I N 108 
entrance to the Field of Mars, was torn down by a group of 
soldiers and workers while the approving public cried: 
ìConfidence in the Provisional Government is hanging 
in mid-air.î 
In short, no confidence in the government on the 
part of the overwhelming majority of the demonstrators, 
and obvious cowardly hesitation of the Mensheviks and 
Socialist-Revolutionaries to go ìagainst the streamîó 
such was the general tone of the demonstration. 
Bankruptcy of the Compromise Policy 
Of all the slogans the most popular were: ìAll power 
to the Soviet!î ìDown with the ten capitalist Ministers!î 
ìNeither a separate peace with Wilhelm nor secret treaties 
with the British and French capitalists!î ìLong live 
control and organization of production!î ìDown with 
the Duma and the Council of State!î ìAnnul the orders 
against the soldiers!î ìAnnounce just terms of peace!î 
etc. The overwhelming majority of the demonstrators 
revealed their solidarity with our Party. Even such 
regiments as the Volhynia and Keksholm marched under 
the slogan ìAll power to the Soviet of Workersí 
and Soldiersí Deputies!î The members of the majority of 
the Executive Committee, who have dealings not with 
the soldier masses, but with the regimental committees, 
were sincerely amazed at this ìunexpected surprise.î 
In short, the overwhelming majority of the demonstrators 
(who totalled 400,000 to 500,000) expressed downright 
lack of confidence in the policy of compromise with 
the bourgeoisie. The demonstration marched under the 
revolutionary slogans of our Party.

AT THE DEMONSTRATION 109 
There is no possible room for doubt: the fairy tale 
about a Bolshevik ìplotî has been utterly exposed. 
A party which enjoys the confidence of the overwhelming 
majority of the workers and soldiers of the capital has 
no need for ìplots.î Only an uneasy conscience, or political 
ignorance, could have suggested the ìideaî of a Bolshevik 
ìplotî to the ìhigh-policy makers.î 
Pravda, No. 86, 
June 20, 1917 
Signed: K. St.

CLOSE THE RANKS! 
The events of July 3 and 4 were called forth by the 
general crisis in the country. The protracted war and 
universal exhaustion, the incredibly high prices and 
undernourishment, the rising counter-revolution and 
the economic disruption, the disbanding of regiments 
at the front and the delay in settling the land question, 
the general state of dislocation in the country and 
the inability of the Provisional Government to extricate 
the country from the crisisóthat is what drove the 
masses into the streets on July 3 and 4. 
To attribute this action to the insidious agitation 
of this or that party is to adopt the point of view of the 
secret police, who would attribute every mass movement 
to the instigation of ìringleadersî and ìseditionmongers.î 
Neither the Bolsheviks nor any other party called 
for the demonstration of July 3. More than that, as late 
as July 3, the Bolshevik Party, the most influential 
in Petrograd, called upon the workers and soldiers to 
refrain. But when the movement broke out in spite of 
this, our Party, considering it had no right to wash its 
hands of the matter, did all it possibly could to 
lend the movement a peaceful and organized character.

CLOSE THE RANKS! 111 
But the counter-revolutionaries were not dozing. They 
organized the provocative firing; they sullied with blood 
the days of the demonstration and, relying on certain 
units from the front, they launched an offensive 
against the revolution. The core of the counter-revolution, 
the Cadet Party, as if foreseeing all this, resigned 
from the Cabinet beforehand and thus set its hands free. 
And the Mensheviks and Socialist-Revolutionaries of the 
Executive Committee, clinging to their shaken positions, 
perfidiously declared a demonstration in favour of the 
transfer of full power to the Soviets a rebellion against 
the Soviets, and incited against revolutionary Petrograd 
the backward elements of the regiments summoned 
from the front. Blinded by factional fanaticism, 
they failed to notice that by striking at the revolutionary 
workers and soldiers they were weakening the 
whole front of the revolution and firing the hopes of the 
counter-revolutionaries. 
The result is a riot of counter-revolution and a military 
dictatorship. 
The wrecking of the offices of Pravda and Soldatskaya 
Pravda,34 of the Trud printing plant35 and of our district 
organizations, the assaults and murders, the arrests 
without trial and the ìunauthorizedî reprisals, the vile 
calumniation of the leaders of our Party by contemptible 
police spies and the vituperation of the pen pirates of 
the venal press, the disarming of the revolutionary workers 
and the disbanding of regiments, the restoration 
of the death penaltyóthere you have the ìworkî of 
the military dictatorship. 
And all this on the plea of ìsaving the revolution,î 
ìby orderî of the Kerensky-Tsereteli ìMinistry,î sup

J. V. S T A L I N 112 
ported by the All-Russian Executive Committee. And 
the ruling Socialist-Revolutionary and Menshevik parties, 
scared by the military dictatorship, light-heartedly 
betray the leaders of the proletarian party to the enemies 
of the revolution, connive at the wrecking and rioting 
and take no measures to stop the ìunauthorizedî 
reprisals. 
What we now have is a tacit agreement between the 
Provisional Government and the general staff of the counter-
revolution, the Cadet Party, with the open connivance 
of the Executive Committee, against the revolutionary 
workers and soldiers of Petrograd. 
And the more the ruling parties yield, the more arrogant 
the counter-revolutionaries become. From attacking 
the Bolsheviks they are now proceeding to attack all 
the Soviet parties and the Soviets themselves. They 
smash the Menshevik district organizations in Petrogradskaya 
Storona and Okhta. They smash the metalworkersí 
union branch in Nevskaya Zastava. They invade 
a meeting of the Petrograd Soviet and arrest its members 
(Deputy Sakharov). They organize special groups on 
the Nevsky Prospect to track down members of the Executive 
Committee. They are definitely talking of dispersing 
the Executive Committee, to say nothing of the 
ìplotî against certain members of the Provisional Government 
and leaders of the Executive Committee. 
The counter-revolutionaries grow more brazen and provocative 
from hour to hour. But the Provisional Government 
continues to disarm the revolutionary workers and 
soldiers on the plea of ìsaving the revolution.î . . . 
All this, coupled with the developing crisis in the 
country, the famine and disruption, the war and its

CLOSE THE RANKS! 113 
surprises, is adding to the acuteness of the situation and 
rendering new political crises inevitable. 
The task now is to be prepared for the impending 
battles, to meet them in a fitting and organized manner. 
Hence: 
The first commandment: Donít allow yourselves to 
be provoked by the counter-revolutionaries; arm yourselves 
with restraint and self-control; save your strength 
for the coming struggle; permit no premature actions. 
The second commandment: Rally more closely 
around our Party; close your ranks in face of the assault 
of our innumerable enemies; keep the banner flying; 
encourage the weak, rally the stragglers and enlighten 
the unawakened. 
No compromise with the counter-revolutionaries! 
No unity with the ìsocialistî jailers! 
An alliance of the revolutionary elements against 
counter-revolution and those who shield itósuch is our 
watchword. 
Proletarskoye Delo 
(Kronstadt), No, 2, 
July 15, 1917 
Signed: K. Stalin, 
Member of the Central Committee, 
Russian Social-Democratic Labour Party

SPEECHES 
DELIVERED AT AN EMERGENCY 
CONFERENCE OF THE PETROGRAD 
ORGANIZATION OF THE R.S.D.L.P. 
(BOLSHEVIKS) 
July 16-20, 1917 36 
1. REPORT OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE 
ON THE JULY EVENTS 
July 16 
Comrades, our Party, and the Central Committee of 
our Party in particular, are accused of having incited and 
organized the demonstration of July 3 and 4, with the 
object of compelling the Central Executive Committee 
of the Soviets to take power, and if they refused to do so, 
of seizing power ourselves. 
I must, first of all, repudiate these charges. On July 3, 
two representatives of the machine-gun regiment burst 
in on the Bolshevik conference and announced that the 
1st Machine-Gun Regiment had come out. You will recall 
that we told the delegates that Party members could not 
go counter to the decision of their Party, and that the 
representatives of the regiment protested and said that 
they would rather resign from the Party than go against 
the decision of their regiment. 
The Central Committee of our Party was of the opinion 
that in the present situation a demonstration of the 
workers and soldiers of Petrograd would be unwise. It 
would be unwise, the C.C. considered, because it was clear

SPEECHES AT AN EMERGENCY CONFERENCE 115 
that the offensive launched at the front on the governmentís 
initiative was a gamble, that the soldiers, not 
knowing for what aims they were being led to fight, 
would not go into action, and that if we were to demonstrate 
in Petrograd the enemies of the revolution would 
lay the blame on us for the failure of the offensive at 
the front. We wanted the blame for the collapse of the 
offensive to fall on those who were really responsible for 
his gamble. 
But the demonstration had started. The machinegunners 
had sent round delegates to the factories. By 
about 6 oíclock we were faced with the fact that vast 
numbers of workers and soldiers had come out. At about 
5 oíclock, at the meeting of the Central Executive Committee 
of the Soviets, I had declared officially in the name 
of our Central Committee and of the conference that we 
had decided not to demonstrate. To accuse us after this 
of having organized the demonstration is a lie worthy 
only of brazen calumniators. 
The demonstration was under way. Had the Party 
the right to wash its hands of it and stand aloof? In view 
of the possibility of even more serious complications, 
we had no right to wash our hands of itóas the party 
of the proletariat we had to intervene in the demonstration 
and lend it a peaceful and organized character, 
while not setting ourselves the aim of seizing power by 
force of arms. 
Let me remind you of a similar incident in the history 
of our working-class movement. On January 9, 1905, 
when Gapon led the masses to the tsar, our Party did not 
refuse to march with the masses, although it knew they 
were marching the devil knows where. In the present

J. V. S T A L I N 116 
case, when the movement was marching not under Gaponís 
slogans, but under our slogans, we had still less 
right to stand aloof from the movement. We were obliged 
to intervene, as a regulator, as a restraining party, 
in order to protect the movement from possible complications. 
The Mensheviks and Socialist-Revolutionaries lay 
claim to leadership of the working-class movement, but 
they do not look like people capable of leading the working 
class. Their attacks on the Bolsheviks reveal their 
utter failure to understand the duties of a working-class 
party. They talk about this latest action of the workers 
like people who have broken with the working class. 
That night, the Party Central Committee, the Petrograd 
Committee and the Army Organization decided to 
intervene in this spontaneous movement of the soldiers 
and workers. The Mensheviks and Socialist-Revolutionaries, 
seeing that more than 400,000 soldiers and 
workers were following us and that the ground was 
slipping from under their feet, declared the demonstration 
of the workers and soldiers to be a demonstration 
against the Soviets. I affirm that on the evening of 
July 4, when the Bolsheviks were proclaimed traitors 
to the revolution, it was the Mensheviks and Socialist- 
Revolutionaries who betrayed the revolution, broke the 
united revolutionary front, and concluded an alliance 
with the counter-revolutionaries. In striking at the 
Bolsheviks they struck at the revolution. 
On July 5, the Mensheviks and Socialist-Revolutionaries 
declared martial law, set up a general staff and handed 
over all affairs to the military clique. We, who were 
fighting for the transfer of all power to the Soviets, were

SPEECHES AT AN EMERGENCY CONFERENCE 117 
thus relegated to the position of armed opponents of the 
Soviets. A situation was created in which the troops of 
the Bolsheviks might have found themselves opposed to 
the troops of the Soviets. For us to accept battle under 
such circumstances would have been madness. We said 
to the leaders of the Soviets: The Cadets have resigned, 
form a bloc with the workers, let the government be responsible 
to the Soviets. But they took a perfidious step 
and brought out against us the Cossacks, the military cadets, 
hooligans and several regiments from the front, deceiving 
them by alleging that the Bolsheviks were going 
against the Soviets. It goes without saying that under 
these circumstances we could not accept the battle which 
the Mensheviks and Socialist-Revolutionaries were trying 
to force upon us. We decided to retreat. 
On July 5, negotiations took place with the Central 
Executive Committee of the Soviets, represented by 
Lieber. Lieber stipulated that we, that is, the Bolsheviks, 
should withdraw the armoured cars from the Kshesinska 
mansion and that the sailors should leave the Fortress 
of Peter and Paul and return to Kronstadt. We agreed, 
on condition that the Central Executive Committee of 
the Soviets would protect our Party organizations from 
possible raids. In the name of the Central Executive 
Committee, Lieber assured us that our conditions would 
be observed and that the Kshesinska mansion would 
remain at our disposal until we received permanent quarters. 
We kept our promises. The armoured cars were withdrawn 
and the Kronstadt sailors agreed to return, but 
retaining their arms. The Central Executive Committee 
of the Soviets, however, did not keep a single one of its 
promises. On July 6, Kuzmin, military representative

J. V. S T A L I N 118 
of the Socialist-Revolutionaries, telephoned the demand 
that the Kshesinska mansion and the Fortress of Peter 
and Paul should be evacuated within three-quarters of an 
hour, otherwise, he threatened, armed forces would be 
dispatched against them. The Central Committee of our 
Party decided to do everything in its power to avert bloodshed. 
It delegated me to the Fortress of Peter and Paul, 
where I succeeded in persuading the sailors garrisoned 
there not to accept battle, since the situation had taken 
such a turn that we might find ourselves face to face 
with the Soviets. In my capacity as representative of 
the Central Executive Committee of the Soviets I went 
with Bogdanov, the Menshevik, to see Kuzmin. Kuzmin 
had everything ready for action: artillery, cavalry and 
infantry. We argued with him not to resort to armed 
force. Kuzmin resented the fact that ìcivilians were 
hampering him by their constant interference,î and it 
was only reluctantly that he agreed to comply with the 
demand of the Central Executive Committee of the Soviets. 
It is clear to me that the Socialist-Revolutionary 
military men wanted bloodshed, so as to administer a 
ìlessonî to the workers, soldiers and sailors. We prevented 
them from carrying out their perfidious plan. 
Meanwhile, the counter-revolutionaries passed to the 
offensive: the wrecking of the Pravda offices and Trud 
printing plant, the beating up and murder of our comrades, 
the suppression of our newspapers, and so on. 
The counter-revolutionaries are led by the Central Committee 
of the Cadet Party; behind them are the general 
staff and commanding officers of the armyówho are 
representatives of the bourgeoisie that wants to continue 
the war because it is waxing fat on it.

SPEECHES AT AN EMERGENCY CONFERENCE 119 
Day by day the counter-revolutionaries entrenched 
themselves more strongly. Every time we applied to 
the Central Executive Committee of the Soviets for explanations 
we became convinced that it was incapable of 
preventing excesses, that the power was not in the hands 
of the Central Executive Committee but in the hands 
of the Cadet military clique that was setting the tone 
for the counter-revolutionaries. 
Ministers are falling like ninepins. There is a move to 
replace the Central Executive Committee of the Soviets 
by an Extraordinary Conference in Moscow,37 where among 
the hundreds of outright representatives of the bourgeoisie 
the 280 members of the Central Executive Committee 
of the Soviets would be drowned like flies in milk. 
The Central Executive Committee, scared by the 
growth of Bolshevism, is concluding a shameful alliance 
with the counter-revolutionaries and complying with their 
demands, namely, to surrender the Bolsheviks, arrest 
the Baltic delegates38 and disarm the revolutionary soldiers 
and workers. All this is arranged very simply: with 
the aid of shots fired by provocateurs the defencist clique 
create a pretext for disarming the workers and then 
proceed to disarm them. This was the case with the Sestroretsk 
workers,39 who took no part in the demonstration. 
The first sign of every counter-revolution is the disarming 
of the workers and revolutionary soldiers. Here 
this vile counter-revolutionary work has been done by the 
hand of Tsereteli and the other ìsocialist Ministersî 
of the Central Executive Committee of the Soviets. 
Therein lies the whole danger. The ìgovernment of salvation 
of the revolutionî is ìconsolidatingî the revolution 
by strangling it.

J. V. S T A L I N 120 
Our task is to muster our forces, strengthen the existing 
organizations and restrain the masses from premature 
action. It is to the advantage of the counter-revolutionaries 
to provoke us to fight now; but we must not yield 
to the provocation, we must display the utmost revolutionary 
restraint. This is the general tactical line of the 
Central Committee of our Party. 
As to the infamous slander that our leaders are 
backed by German gold, the position of the Party Central 
Committee is this. Allegations of treason have been levelled 
against the revolutionary leaders of the proletariat 
in all bourgeois countriesóagainst Liebknecht in Germany, 
against Lenin in Russia. The Party Central Committee 
is not surprised that the Russian bourgeois resort 
to this tried and tested method against ìundesirable 
elements.î The workers must declare openly that they 
regard their leaders as irreproachable, that they are 
with them solidly, and that they consider themselves 
partners in their cause. The workers themselves have 
applied to the Petrograd Committee for a draft of a resolution 
protesting against the scurrilous attacks on our 
leaders. The Petrograd Committee has drafted such a 
resolution, which will be covered with workersí signatures. 
Our opponents, the Mensheviks and Socialist-Revolutionaries, 
have forgotten that events are not called forth 
by individuals but by the subterranean forces of the revolution, 
and have thus adopted the stand of the secret 
police. 
You know that Pravda has been suppressed since 
July 6 and that the Trud printing plant has been 
sealed up. The intelligence department says that in all

SPEECHES AT AN EMERGENCY CONFERENCE 121 
probability it will be reopened when the investigation is 
completed. While they are idle we shall have to pay about 
30,000 rubles to the compositors and office staffs of 
Pravda and the printing plant. 
After the July events, and after what has happened 
since, we cannot regard the Socialist-Revolutionaries 
and Mensheviks as Socialists. The workers now call them 
social-jailers. 
To talk about unity with the social-jailers after this 
would be criminal. We must put forward another slogan: 
Unity with their Left wing, with the internationalists, 
who still retain a modicum of revolutionary integrity 
and who are prepared to fight the counter-revolution. 
Such is the line of the Central Committee of the Party. 
2. REPORT ON THE CURRENT SITUATION 
July 16 
Comrades, the outstanding feature of the present situation 
is a crisis of power. Around this question other, 
minor questions are grouped. The crisis of power is 
due to the shakiness of the government: a time has come 
when its orders are greeted with either ridicule or indifference, 
and nobody wants to carry them out. Distrust of 
the government is penetrating to the depths of the people. 
The government is tottering. That is what is at the bottom 
of the crisis of power. 
This is the third crisis of power we are witnessing. 
The first was the crisis of tsarist government, which 
is now defunct. The second was the crisis of the first 
Provisional Government, which resulted in the resignation 
of Milyukov and Guchkov. The third is the crisis of

J. V. S T A L I N 122 
the coalition government, when government instability 
has reached its apex. The socialist Ministers are handing 
in their portfolios to Kerensky, and the bourgeoisie express 
their distrust of him. A cabinet was formed, and 
the very next day it proved to be equally unstable. 
As Marxists we must not regard the crisis of power 
solely from the formal angle; we must look at it primarily 
from the class angle. The crisis of power is a 
tense and open struggle of classes for power. The 
result of the first crisis was that the power of the landlords 
gave way to the power of the bourgeoisie, which was 
supported by the Soviets, ìrepresentingî the interests 
of the proletariat and the petty bourgeoisie. The result 
of the second crisis was an agreement between the big 
bourgeoisie and the petty bourgeoisie in the shape of a 
coalition government. As in the first crisis, so in the second, 
the government fought the revolutionary demonstrations 
of the workers (February 27 and April 20-21). 
The second crisis was resolved ìin favourî of the Soviets 
by ìSocialistsî from the Soviets entering the bourgeois 
cabinet. In the third crisis the soldiers and workers are 
openly calling for the assumption of power by the working 
peopleóthe petty-bourgeois and proletarian democracyó
and the elimination of all capitalist elements 
from the government. 
What is the cause of the third crisis? 
The whole ìblameî is now being thrown on the Bolsheviks. 
The demonstration of July 3 and 4 was allegedly 
a factor which intensified the crisis. Karl Marx said 
long ago that every forward step of the revolution calls 
forth a backward step of the counter-revolution in reply. 
Regarding the demonstration of July 3 and 4 as a revo

SPEECHES AT AN EMERGENCY CONFERENCE 123 
lutionary step, the Bolsheviks accept the compliment 
paid them by the socialist renegades of being the pioneers 
of the forward movement. But this crisis of power has 
not been settled in favour of the workers. Who is to blame 
for that? Had the Mensheviks and Socialist-Revolutionaries 
supported the workers and Bolsheviks, the counter-
revolution would have been vanquished. But they 
began to fight the Bolsheviks, they smashed the united 
front of revolution, with the result that the crisis is proceeding 
under circumstances unfavourable not only for 
the Bolsheviks but also for them, the Socialist-Revolutionaries 
and Mensheviks. 
That was the first factor which intensified the crisis. 
The second factor was the resignation of the Cadets 
from the government. The Cadets sensed that things were 
tending to grow worse, that the economic crisis was 
spreading and that money was running low, so they decided 
to slip out. Their departure was a continuation of 
Konovalovís boycott. The Cadets were the first to leave 
the government, having realized its instability. 
The third factor which revealed and intensified the 
crisis of power was the defeat of our armies at the 
front. The war is now the basic issue, on which all other 
issues in the home and foreign affairs of the country 
hinge. And on this basic issue the government has failed. 
It was clear from the very first that the offensive at the 
front was a gamble. There are rumours that hundreds of 
thousands of our men have been taken prisoner and that 
the soldiers are fleeing in disorder. To attribute the ìdisruptionî 
at the front exclusively to Bolshevik agitation 
is to exaggerate the influence of the Bolsheviks. No single 
party can carry so much weight. How our Party, which

J. V. S T A L I N 124 
has about 200,000 members, could ìdemoralizeî the 
army, when the Central Executive Committee of the 
Soviets, which represents 20,000,000 citizens, could not 
retain its influence over the army would want some explaining. 
The fact is that the soldiers do not want to 
fight, because they donít know what they are fighting 
for; they are weary, they are worried by the question 
of the distribution of the land, and so on. To hope that 
the soldiers could be led into action under these circumstances 
was to hope for a miracle. The Central Executive 
Committee of the Soviets was in a position to carry on 
far more extensive agitation in the army than we, and 
it did; nevertheless, the great spontaneous resistance to 
the war carried the day. It is not we who are to blame; 
it is the revolution that is ìto blame,î inasmuch as it 
gave every citizen the right to demand an answer to the 
question: what is the war being fought for? 
Hence, the crisis of power is due to three factors: 
1) The dissatisfaction of the workers and soldiers 
with the government, whose policy they regarded as 
being too Right; 
2) The dissatisfaction of the bourgeoisie with the 
government, whose policy they regarded as being too 
Left; and 
3) The reverses at the front. 
These are the surface forces which brought about the 
crisis of power. 
But at the bottom of them all is the subterranean 
force which brought about the crisis, namely, the economic 
disruption of the country caused by the war. From 
this source alone sprang the three factors which have 
shaken the authority of the coalition government.

SPEECHES AT AN EMERGENCY CONFERENCE 125 
If the crisis is a battle of classes for power, then we, 
as Marxists, must ask: Which class is now rising to power? 
The facts show that it is the working class that is rising 
to power. Clearly, the bourgeois class will not allow it to 
take power without a fight. The petty bourgeoisie, which 
comprises the majority of the population of Russia, 
wavers, uniting now with us, now with the Cadets, thus 
throwing the last weight into the scales. This is the class 
content of the crisis of power we are now witnessing. 
Who are the vanquished and who the victors in this 
crisis? Evidently in this instance the power is being 
assumed by the bourgeoisie, represented by the Cadets. 
At one moment, when the Cadets resigned from the government, 
the power was in the hands of the Central Executive 
Committee of the Soviets; but it surrendered the 
power and requested the members of the government 
to form a cabinet. Now the Central Executive Committee 
is an appendage of the government; a reshuffling of Ministers 
is going on in the cabinet; Kerensky alone has remained. 
Both the Ministers and the Central Executive 
Committee have to obey the dictates of somebody. Eviently, 
that somebody is the organized bourgeoisie, the 
Cadets in the first place. They are dictating their terms; 
they are demanding a government not of party representatives 
but of ìcompetent persons,î withdrawal of Chernovís 
agrarian program, amendment of the government declaration 
of July 8,40 and elimination of the Bolsheviks 
from all organs of authority. The Central Executive 
Committee is yielding to the bourgeoisie and consenting 
to its terms. 
How could it happen that the bourgeoisie, who 
yesterday was still in retreat, is today giving orders

J. V. S T A L I N 126 
to the Central Executive Committee of the Soviets? 
The explanation is that after the defeat at the front the 
government has lost credit with the foreign bankers. 
There is evidence worthy of the most serious attention 
which indicates that the hand of Ambassador Buchanan 
and the bankers is at work here; they are refusing credits 
to the government unless it abandons its ìsocialistî 
leanings. 
That is the first reason. 
The second reason is that the bourgeois front is better 
organized than the revolutionary front. When the Mensheviks 
and Socialist-Revolutionaries united with the 
bourgeoisie and began to strike at the Bolsheviks, the 
counter-revolutionaries realized that the united revolutionary 
front was broken. Organized in military and imperialist 
financial cliques headed by the Central Committee 
of the Cadet Party, the counter-revolutionaries presented 
a number of demands to the defencists. The Mensheviks 
and Socialist-Revolutionaries, trembling for their 
power, hastened to carry out these demands of the counter-
revolutionaries. 
That is the background against which the victory of 
the counter-revolutionaries was enacted. 
It is clear that at this juncture the counter-revolutionaries 
have beaten the Bolsheviks because the Bolsheviks 
have been isolated, betrayed by the Mensheviks and 
Socialist-Revolutionaries. But it is likewise clear that 
a favourable moment will come when we shall be able 
to give decisive battle to the bourgeoisie. 
The counter-revolutionaries have two centres. One is 
the party of the organized bourgeoisie, the Cadets, who 
are shielded by the defencist Soviets. Its executive organ

SPEECHES AT AN EMERGENCY CONFERENCE 127 
is the general staff, headed by prominent generals in 
whose hands all the threads of the command are concentrated. 
The second centre is the imperialist financial 
clique, which is connected with Britain and France and in 
whose hands all the threads of credit are concentrated. 
It is not for nothing that Yefremov, member of the Inter- 
Parliamentary Commission which controls the credits, 
has been brought into the government. 
These facts account for the victory of the counterrevolution 
over the revolution. 
What are the prospects? As long as the war continues 
óand it will continue; as long as the industrial disruption 
is not overcomeóand it will not be overcome, because 
it cannot be overcome by repressive measures 
against the soldiers and workers, and the ruling classes 
cannot take heroic measures; as long as the peasants do 
not receive landóand they will not receive land, because 
even Chernov with his moderate program proved to be 
an undesirable member of the governmentóas long as 
all this goes on, crises will be inevitable, the masses will 
come out into the streets again and again, and there will 
be determined battles. 
The peaceful period of development of the revolution 
has come to an end. A new period has begun, a period of 
sharp conflicts, clashes, collisions. Times will be turbulent, 
crisis will follow crisis. The soldiers and workers 
will not remain silent. Twenty regiments protested 
even against the suppression of Okopnaya Pravda. The 
fact that new Ministers have been pushed into the government 
has not solved the crisis. The working class has not 
been reduced to impotence. The working class has proved 
to be more sensible than its enemies thought. When it

J. V. S T A L I N 128 
realized that the Soviets had betrayed it, it declined to 
accept battle on July 4 and 5. And the agrarian revolution 
is only just gathering momentum. 
We must meet the impending battles in a fitting and 
organized manner. 
Our main tasks should be: 
1) To urge the workers, soldiers and peasants to display 
restraint, fortitude and organization; 
2) To revive, strengthen and expand our organizations; 
3) Not to neglect any legal opportunities, for no counter-
revolution can really drive us underground. 
The period of unbridled and violent repression has 
passed; a period of ìlegalî persecution is setting in, 
and we must seize upon and utilize every opportunity the 
law permits us. 
In view of the fact that the Bolsheviks have been 
isolated because the majority in the Central Executive 
Committee of the Soviets have betrayed us by concluding 
an alliance with the counter-revolutionaries, the question 
arises what our attitude should be towards the Soviets 
and their majority, the Mensheviks and Socialist-Revolutionaries. 
At the meeting of the Central Executive Committee 
Martov accused Gotz and Dan of having come 
with decisions already adopted at meetings of the Black 
Hundreds and the Cadets. The persecution of the Bolsheviks 
has shown that they are left without allies. The 
news of the arrest of our leaders and the suppression of 
our papers was greeted by the Mensheviks and Socialist- 
Revolutionaries with thunderous applause. To talk 
about unity with the Mensheviks and Socialist-Revolutionaries 
after that is to extend a hand to counter-revolutionaries.

SPEECHES AT AN EMERGENCY CONFERENCE 129 
I say this because efforts are being made here and 
there in the factories to arrange an alliance of the Mensheviks 
and Socialist-Revolutionaries with the Bolsheviks. 
That is a camouflaged form of fighting the revolution, 
for alliance with the defencists may bring about 
the doom of the revolution. There are elements among 
the Mensheviks and Socialist-Revolutionaries who are 
prepared to fight the counter-revolutionaries (the Kamkovites41 
among the Socialist-Revolutionaries, and the 
Martovites among the Mensheviks), and with these we 
are ready to join in a united revolutionary front. 
3. REPLIES TO WRITTEN QUESTIONS 
July 16 
1) Maslovsky: In the event of future conflicts and possibly 
armed actions, to what extent will our Party assist, and will it 
head an armed protest? 
Stalin: It is to be presumed that there will be armed 
actions, and we must be prepared for all contingencies. 
The future conflicts will be sharper, and the Party must 
not wash its hands of them. Saln, speaking in the name 
of the Lettish district, reproached the Party for not assuming 
leadership of the movement. But that is not so, 
because the Party did in fact set out to direct the movement 
into peaceful channels. We might be reproached 
for not striving to take power. We could have taken 
power on July 3 and 4; we could have compelled the Central 
Executive Committee of the Soviets to sanction our 
taking power. But the question is, could we have retained 
power? The front, the provinces and a number of local 
Soviets would have risen against us. Power which did

J. V. S T A L I N 130 
not rest upon the provinces would have proved to be 
baseless. By taking power under such circumstances we 
would have disgraced ourselves. 
2) Ivanov: What is our attitude towards the slogan ìPower 
to the Soviets!î? Is it not time to call for ìdictatorship of the 
proletariatî? 
Stalin: When a crisis of power i s resolved, i t 
means that a certain class has come to poweróin this 
case, the bourgeoisie. Can we, then, continue to adhere 
to the old slogan ìAll power to the Soviets!î? Of course, 
not. To transfer power to the Soviets, which in fact are 
tacitly working hand in glove with the bourgeoisie, 
would mean helping the enemy. When we are victorious 
we can transfer the power only to the working class, 
supported by the poorer strata of the rural population. 
We must advocate another, a more expedient form of 
organization of the Soviets of Workersí and Peasantsí 
Deputies. The form of power remains as before, but 
we change the class content of the slogan, and we say in 
the language of the class struggle: All power to the workers 
and poor peasants, who will conduct a revolutionary 
policy. 
3) Anonymous: What should we do if the Central Executive 
Committee of the Soviets of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies were 
to declare that the minority must submit to the majority? Would 
we withdraw from the Central Executive Committee of the Soviets, 
or not? 
Stalin: We already have a decision on this point. 
The Bolshevik group held a meeting at which a reply was 
drawn up to the effect that as members of the Central 
Executive Committee of the Soviets we submit to

SPEECHES AT AN EMERGENCY CONFERENCE 131 
all decisions of the Central Executive Committee and 
refrain from opposing them, but as members of the 
Party we may act independently, since there is no 
doubt that the existence of the Soviets does not annul 
the independent existence of parties. Our reply will 
be announced at the meeting of the Central Executive 
Committee tomorrow. 
4. REPLY TO THE DISCUSSION 
July 16 
Comrades, for the purpose of drafting a resolution on 
our attitude towards the decision of the Central Executive 
Committee of the Soviets regarding the Bolsheviks, a 
commission was elected, of which I was a member. It has 
drafted a resolution which reads: As members of the Central 
Executive Committee of the Soviets we submit to 
the majority, but as members of the Bolshevik Party we 
may act independently even in opposition to the decisions 
of the Central Executive Committee of the Soviets. 
Prokhorov understands the dictatorship of the proletariat 
to mean the dictatorship of our Party. But we speak 
of the dictatorship of the class which leads the poorer 
strata of the peasantry. 
Inexactitudes in some of the speeches: What are we 
confronted with, reaction or counter-revolution? In time 
of revolution there is no such thing as reaction. When 
one class replaces another in power, this is not reaction 
but revolution or counter-revolution. 
As for the fourth factor responsible for the crisis of 
power to which Kharitonov referred, the international 
factor, only the war and the questions of foreign policy

J. V. S T A L I N 132 
connected with the war have had any bearing on our 
crisis of power. In my report I attributed major importance 
to the war as a factor responsible for it. 
As for the petty bourgeoisie, it is no longer an integral 
whole; it is undergoing a process of rapid differentiation 
(the Soviet of Peasantsí Deputies of the Petrograd 
Garrison, which is going counter to the Executive 
Committee of the Peasantsí Congress). A struggle is going 
on in the rural districts and side by side with the existing 
Soviets of Peasantsí Deputies new and spontaneous 
ones are springing up. It is on the support of these poorer 
strata of the peasantry which are now rising to the surface 
that we count. They alone, because of their economic 
position, can go along with us. Those strata of the 
peasantry which have put people so avid for the blood 
of the proletariat as Avksentyev on the Executive Committee 
of the Peasantsí Congress will not follow us and 
will not swing our way. I saw how these people applauded 
when Tsereteli announced the order for the arrest of 
Comrade Lenin. 
The comrades who say that the dictatorship of the 
proletariat is impossible because the proletariat constitutes 
a minority of the population interpret the strength 
of a majority mechanically. Even the Soviets represent 
only the 20,000,000 people they have organized, 
but thanks to their organization they have the following 
of the whole population. The whole population will 
follow an organized force that can break the shackles of 
economic disruption. 
Comrade Volodarskyís interpretation of the resolution 
adopted by the conference differs from mine, but 
what his view is it is hard to make out.

SPEECHES AT AN EMERGENCY CONFERENCE 133 
Some comrades ask whether we may change our slogan. 
Our slogan of power to the Soviets was adapted to 
the peaceful period of development of the revolution, 
which has now passed. We must not forget that one of 
the conditions for the transfer of power now is victory 
over the counter-revolution through an uprising. When we 
advanced the slogan about the Soviets, the power was 
actually in the hands of the Soviets. By bringing pressure 
to bear upon the Soviets we could influence changes in 
the government. Now the power is in the hands of the 
Provisional Government. We can no longer count on securing 
the peaceful transfer of power to the working 
class by bringing pressure to bear on the Soviets. As Marxists 
we must say: it is not a matter of institutions, but 
of the policy of which class the given institution is carrying 
out. Unquestionably we are in favour of Soviets in 
which we have the majority. And we shall strive to create 
such Soviets. But we cannot transfer power to Soviets 
which have entered into an alliance with the counter-revolutionaries. 
What I have said may be summed up as follows: 
The peaceful path of development of the movement has 
come to an end, because the movement has entered the 
path of socialist revolution. The petty bourgeoisie, except 
for the poorer strata of the peasantry, is now supporting 
the counter-revolutionaries. Therefore, at the present 
stage the slogan ìAll power to the Soviets!î has become 
obsolete. 
First published in 1923, 
in the magazine Krasnaya Letopis, No. 7

WHAT HAS HAPPENED? 
The date was July 3 and 4. The workers and soldiers 
were marching together in procession through the streets 
of Petrograd demanding: ìAll power to the Soviets of 
Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies!î 
What did the workers and soldiers want, what were 
they seeking to attain? 
Was it the overthrow of the Soviets? 
Of course, not! 
What the workers and soldiers wanted was that the 
Soviets should take all power into their own hands and 
alleviate the hard lot of the workers, peasants, soldiers 
and sailors. 
They wanted to strengthen the Soviets, not to weaken 
or destroy them. 
They wanted the Soviets to assume power, break with 
the landlords, and turn over the land to the peasants at 
once, without delay. 
They wanted the Soviets to assume power, break with 
the capitalists, and improve conditions of labour and 
establish workersí control in the mills and factories. 
They wanted the Soviets to proclaim just terms of 
peace and to put an end at long last to this grim war 
which is carrying off millions of young lives.

WHAT HAS HAPPENED? 135 
That is what the workers and soldiers wanted. 
But the leaders of the Executive Committee, the Mensheviks 
and Socialist-Revolutionaries, had no desire to 
follow the path of revolution. 
Rather than alliance with the revolutionary peasantry, 
they preferred agreement with the landlords. 
Rather than alliance with the revolutionary workers, 
they preferred agreement with the capitalists. 
Rather than alliance with the revolutionary soldiers 
and sailors, they preferred alliance with the military 
cadets and Cossacks. 
They perfidiously declared the Bolshevik workers and 
soldiers enemies of the revolution and turned their weapons 
against them, in deference to the wishes of the counter-
revolutionaries. 
Blind fools! They failed to observe that in firing 
upon the Bolsheviks they were firing upon the revolution 
and paving the way for the triumph of counterrevolution. 
It was for this reason that the counter-revolutionaries, 
who until then had been lying low, crawled out into 
the open. 
The breach of the front which began at that juncture, 
and which revealed the utter disastrousness of the defencistsí 
policy, still further fired the hopes of the counterrevolutionaries. 
And the counter-revolutionaries did not fail to take 
advantage of the ìblundersî of the Mensheviks and Socialist-
Revolutionaries. 
Having intimidated and entrapped them, and having 
tamed them and won them over to their own side, the 
counter-revolutionary ringleaders, the Milyukov gentry,

J. V. S T A L I N 136 
launched a campaign against the revolution. Wrecking 
and suppression of newspapers, disarming of the workers 
and soldiers, arrests and manhandling, lies and slanders, 
vile and despicable calumniation of the leaders of our 
Party by venal police sleuthsósuch are the fruits of the 
policy of compromise. 
Things have reached such a pitch that the Cadets, 
grown brazen, are issuing ultimatums, threatening, terrorizing, 
abusing and vilifying the Soviets, while the 
scared Mensheviks and Socialist-Revolutionaries are 
surrendering position after position, and, under the 
blows of the Cadets, the brave Ministers are falling 
like ninepins and clearing the way for Milyukovís 
placemen, for the sake of . . . ìsalvationî . . . of 
the revolution. 
Is it to be wondered, then, that the counter-revolutionaries 
are jubilant with victory? 
Such is the state of affairs now. 
But it cannot last for long. 
The victory of the counter-revolutionaries is a victory 
for the landlords. But the peasants cannot live any longer 
without land. A resolute struggle against the landlords 
is therefore inevitable. 
The victory of the counter-revolutionaries is a victory 
for the capitalists. But the workers cannot rest 
content without a radical improvement of their lot. A 
resolute struggle against the capitalists is therefore inevitable. 
The victory of the counter-revolutionaries means the 
continuation of the war. But the war cannot continue for 
long, because the whole country is suffocating under its 
burden.

WHAT HAS HAPPENED? 137 
The victory of the counter-revolutionaries is therefore 
insecure and evanescent. 
The future is on the side of a new revolution. 
Only the establishment of the full power of the people 
can give the peasants land, bring order into the economic 
life of the country, and ensure peace, which is so essential 
for the suffering and exhausted peoples of Europe. 
Rabochy i Soldat, No. 1, 
July 23, 1917 
Unsigned

VICTORY OF THE COUNTER-REVOLUTION42 
The counter-revolution has organized. It is spreading 
and attacking all along the line. Its leaders, the Cadet 
gentry, who only yesterday were boycotting the government, 
are today prepared to return to office in order to 
act as the masters in the country. 
The ìrulingî parties, the Socialist-Revolutionaries 
and the Mensheviks, and their government of the ìsalvation 
of the revolutionî are retreating in utter disarray. 
They are ready to make any concession, to consent to 
everythingóonly give the order. 
Hand over the Bolsheviks and their followers? 
ìCertainly, Messieurs the Cadets, you can have the 
Bolsheviks.î 
Hand over the Baltic delegation and the Kronstadt 
Bolsheviks? 
ìAt your service, Messieurs the ëIntelligence Service,í 
you can have the delegation.î 
Suppress the Bolshevik newspapers, the workersí and 
soldiersí newspapers, which are not to the liking of the 
Cadets? 
ìGlad to oblige, Messieurs the Cadets; weíll suppress 
them.î

VICTORY OF THE COUNTER-REVOLUTION 139 
Disarm the revolutionóthe workers and soldiers? 
ìWith the greatest of pleasure, Messieurs the Landlords 
and Capitalists. Weíll disarm not only the Petrograd 
workers, but the Sestroretsk workers as well, although 
they had no part in the events of July 3 and 4.î 
Restrict freedom of speech and assembly, inviolability 
of person and domicile, and introduce a censorship 
and a secret police? 
ìIt shall be done, Messieurs the Blacks. Everything 
without fail.î 
Restore the death penalty at the front? 
ìWith pleasure, Messieurs the Insatiables.î . . . 
Dissolve the Finnish Diet, which supports the platform 
of the Soviet? 
ìRight away, Messieurs the Landlords and Capitalists.î 
Revise the governmentís program? 
ìWillingly, Messieurs the Cadets.î 
The Mensheviks and Socialist-Revolutionaries are prepared 
to go farther still along the road of concession, so 
long as they can strike a bargain with the Cadets, any 
sort of bargain. . . . 
But the counter-revolutionaries are growing increasingly 
brazen and are demanding more and more sacrifices, 
driving the Provisional Government and the Executive 
Committee to ignominious depths of self-abdication. In 
deference to the Cadets it is proposed to convene an 
ìExtraordinary Assemblyî in Moscow, consisting of members 
of the already abolished State Duma and of other 
representatives of the propertied classes, a coterie in 
which the Central Executive Committee will be a 
wretched minority. The Ministers have lost their heads and

J. V. S T A L I N 140 
are piling their portfolios at Kerenskyís feet. At the dictation 
of the Cadets a list of members of the government 
is being drawn up. 
The liberty purchased with blood is being stifled 
with the aid of the tsarist Duma and the traitor Cadetsó 
such are the depths of shame to which we are being reduced 
by our present helmsmen of state. . . . 
But the war goes on, adding to the calamities at the 
front. And they think that by reintroducing the death 
penalty at the front they can improve the situation. 
Blind fools! They do not realize that an offensive can 
count on mass support only when the aims of the war are 
clearly understood and shared by the army, when the 
army knows that it is shedding its blood in a cause that 
is vitally its own. They do not realize that without this 
knowledge a mass offensive is inconceivable in a democratic 
Russia where the soldiers are free to hold meetings 
and assemblies. 
And the economic disruption grows more profound, 
threatening famine, unemployment and general ruin. 
They think they can end the economic crisis by resorting 
to police measures against the revolution. Such is the 
will of the counter-revolutionaries. Blind fools! They do 
not realize that the country cannot be saved from collapse 
unless revolutionary measures are taken against 
the bourgeoisie. 
Workers are being hounded, organizations wrecked, 
the peasants cheated, soldiers and sailors arrested, leaders 
of the proletarian party slandered and libelled, and 
at the same time the counter-revolutionaries have grown 
insolent and are jubilating and calumniatingóand all 
this under the guise of ìsavingî the revolution. Such

FROM MARX 
TO MAO 
 
NOT FOR 
COMMERCIAL 
DISTRIBUTION 
141 
is the pass we have been brought to by the Socialist- 
Revolutionary and Menshevik parties. 
Yet there are people (see Novaya Zhizn) who after 
all this propose that we unite with these gentry who are 
ìsavingî the revolution by strangling it. 
What do they take us for? 
No, sirs, we can have no truck with people who are 
betraying the revolution. 
The workers will never forget that in the grim ordeal 
of the July days, when the infuriated counter-revolutionaries 
opened fire on the revolution, the Bolsheviks were 
the only party that did not desert the working class 
districts. 
The workers will never forget that at that grim moment 
the ìrulingî parties, the Socialist-Revolutionaries 
and Mensheviks, were in one camp with those who 
were crushing and disarming the workers, soldiers and 
sailors. 
All this the workers will remember and they will draw 
the proper conclusions. 
Rabochy i Soldat, No. 1, 
July 23, 1917 
Signed: K. St. 
VICTORY OF THE COUNTER-REVOLUTION

THE VICTORY OF THE CADETS 
Evidently the Ministerial shuffle is not yet over. The 
Cadets and Kerensky are still bargaining. One ìcombinationî 
is followed by another. 
The Cadets, of course, will enter the government, for 
it is they who call the tune. Chernov may remain. Tsereteli, 
evidently, is ìnot wantedî any longer. Tsereteli 
ìwas neededî for the purpose of disarming the workers. 
Now that the workers are disarmed, he is of no more use. 
ìThe Moor has done his work, he can go.î43 He will be 
replaced by Avksentyev. 
But it is not a question of personalities, of course. 
Chernov, Tsereteli, or anyone else of the same breedó 
what difference does it make? Everyone knows that these 
pseudo-Zimmerwaldists served the cause of imperialism 
no worse than the Hendersons and Thomases.44 
But, I repeat, it is not a question of personalities. 
The point is that in all this turmoil, in this chase 
after portfolios and the like, at the bottom of which 
is a struggle for power, the line of the Cadets, the 
line of counter-revolution in home policy, and of a 
ìwar to a finishî in foreign policy, has gained the upper 
hand.

THE VICTORY OF THE CADETS 143 
For the question at issue was: 
Either the war goes onóin which case complete dependence 
on the British and American money market, 
the rule of the Cadets, and the revolution curbed; for 
neither the Cadets nor ìAlliedî capital can sympathize 
with the Russian revolution. 
Or, transfer of power to the revolutionary class, the 
breaking of the financial shackles of Allied capital 
which bind Russia hand and foot, declaration of terms 
of peace, and rehabilitation of the disrupted national 
economy at the expense of the profits of the landlords and 
capitalists. 
There was no third way, and the Mensheviks and Socialist-
Revolutionaries, who sought for a third way, were 
bound to go down. 
In this respect the Cadets proved more clearheaded. 
ìThe government must resolutely break with the disastrous 
trends of Zimmerwaldism and ëutopianí socialism,î 
writes Rech. 
In other words, war without reservations, war to a 
finish. 
ìThere must be a definite conclusion,î said Nekrasov 
at the conference: Either take power yourselves 
(he was addressing the Soviet), or let others take 
power! 
In other words, either revolution or counter-revolution. 
The Mensheviks and Socialist-Revolutionaries had 
abandoned the path of revolution, hence they were 
inevitably bound to fall under the sway of the Cadets, 
of the counter-revolutionaries. 
For the Cadets mean an assured internal loan.

J. V. S T A L I N 144 
The Cadets mean friendship with Allied capital, that 
is, an assured foreign loan. 
And, owing to the disruption in the rear and especially 
at the front, money is needed so badly. . . . 
That is the whole essence of the ìcrisis.î 
And that is the whole significance of the victory of 
the Cadets. 
Whether this victory will be enough for long the near 
future will show. 
Rabochy i Soldat, No. 2, 
July 24, 1917 
Editorial

TO ALL THE TOILERS, 
TO ALL THE WORKERS AND SOLDIERS 
OF PETROGRAD45 
Comrades, 
These are dire times for Russia. 
The three years of war have claimed countless victims 
and have reduced the country to a state of exhaustion. 
The dislocation of transport and the disruption of 
food supplies are fraught with the menace of wholesale 
starvation. 
Industrial disruption and the stoppage of factories 
are shaking the very foundation of our national 
economy. 
But the war goes on and on, intensifying the general 
crisis and leading towards the utter collapse of 
the country. 
The Provisional Government, whose mission it was to 
ìsaveî the country, has proved incapable of performing 
its task. More, it has made things still worse by launching 
an offensive at the front and thereby prolonging the war, 
which is the principal cause of the general crisis in the 
country. 
The result is a state of complete government instability, 
that crisis and breakdown of authority about which

J. V. S T A L I N 146 
everyone is clamouring, but to eliminate which no serious 
measures are being taken. 
The resignation of the Cadets from the government 
was an additional demonstration of the utter artificiality 
and impracticability of a coalition Ministry. 
And the retreat of our armies at the front, after their 
well-known offensive, revealed how fatal the offensive 
policy was, thereby intensifying the crisis to the 
utmost, undermining the prestige of the government and 
depriving it of credits from the bourgeoisie, ìhomeî and 
ìAllied.î 
The situation was critical. 
Two courses were open to the ìsavioursî of the revolution. 
Either to continue the war and launch another 
ìoffensive,î which would mean the inevitable transfer 
of power to the counter-revolutionary bourgeoisie, so 
that money might be obtained by means of internal and 
foreign loans; for otherwise the bourgeoisie would not 
join the government, an internal loan could not be raised 
and Britain and America would refuse creditsóìsavingî 
the country in this case implying defraying the cost of 
the war out of the pockets of the workers and peasants, 
in the interests of the Russian and ìAlliedî imperialist 
sharks. 
Or to transfer power to the workers and poor peasants, 
announce democratic terms of peace and stop 
the war, in order to advance the revolution and turn 
the land over to the peasants, establish workersí control 
in industry and restore the collapsing national 
economy at the expense of the profits of the capitalists 
and landlords.

TO ALL THE TOILERS 147 
The first course implies strengthening the power of 
the propertied classes over the toilers and converting 
Russia into a colony of Britain, America and 
France. 
The second course would open up an era of workersí 
revolutions in Europe, break the financial bonds that 
entangle Russia, shake the very foundation of bourgeois 
rule and pave the way for the real emancipation 
of Russia. 
The demonstration of July 3 and 4 was a call of the 
worker and soldier masses to the socialist parties to 
adopt the second course, the course of developing the 
revolution further. 
That was its political import and therein lay its 
great historical significance. 
But the Provisional Government and the Socialist- 
Revolutionary and Menshevik Ministerial parties, which 
draw their strength not from the revolutionary actions 
of the workers and peasants, but from compromise arrangements 
with the Cadet bourgeoisie, preferred the first 
course, the course of adaptation to the counter-revolutionaries. 
Instead of extending a hand to the demonstrators and 
with them, after taking over power, waging a struggle 
against the ìAlliedî and ìhomeî imperialist bourgeoisie 
for the real salvation of the revolution, they entered into 
an alliance with the counter-revolutionary bourgeoisie and 
turned their weapons against the demonstrators, against 
the workers and soldiers, by setting the military cadets 
and Cossacks on them. 
Thereby they betrayed the revolution, and threw the 
gates wide open for counter-revolution.

J. V. S T A L I N 148 
And the sordid dregs rose from the depths and began 
to swamp all that is honourable and noble. 
Police searches and raids, arrests and manhandling, 
torture and murder, suppression of newspapers and 
organizations, disarming of the workers and disbanding 
of regiments, dissolution of the Finnish Diet, 
restriction of liberties and the reintroduction of the 
death penalty, carte blanche to hooligans and secret 
agents, lies and filthy slanders, and all with the tacit 
consent of the Socialist-Revolutionaries and Mensheviksó
such are the first steps of the counter-revolution. 
The Allied and Russian imperialists and the Cadet 
Party, the higher army officers and the military cadets, 
the Cossacks and the secret serviceóthese are the forces of 
the counter-revolution. 
These groups dictate the lists of members of the Provisional 
Government, and ministers appear and disappear 
like puppets. 
It is at the behest of these groups that the Bolsheviks 
and Chernov are betrayed, that regiments and naval 
crews are purged, that soldiers are shot and units disbanded 
at the front, that the Provisional Government is 
made a plaything of Kerensky, and the Central Executive 
Committee of the Soviets a mere accessory of this plaything, 
that the ìrevolutionary democracyî shamefully 
renounces its rights and duties, and that the rights of 
the tsarist Duma, which was abolished only so recently, 
are restored. 
Things have gone so far that at the ìhistoric conferenceî
46 in the Winter Palace (July 21) an unambiguous 
agreement (conspiracy!) was reached to tighten the

TO ALL THE TOILERS 149 
curb on the revolution, and, from fear of exposure 
by the Bolsheviks, the latter were not invited to the 
conference. 
And still to come is the projected ìMoscow Conference,î 
at which they intend completely to strangle the 
liberty won at the price of blood. . . . 
All this with the collaboration of the Mensheviks 
and Socialist-Revolutionaries, who are cravenly surrendering 
position after position, humbly chastising themselves 
and their organizations and criminally trampling 
upon the gains of the revolution. . . . 
Never have the ìrepresentativesî of the democracy 
behaved so ignominiously as in these historic 
days! 
Never before have they sunk to such shameful depths! 
Is it then to be wondered that the counter-revolutionaries 
have grown brazen and are besmirching everything 
honourable and revolutionary with mud? 
Is it then to be wondered that venal hirelings and 
cowardly slanderers have the effrontery openly to ìaccuseî 
the leaders of our Party of ìtreasonî; that the 
pen pirates of the bourgeois press insolently splash this 
ìaccusationî; that the so-called prosecuting authorities 
barefacedly published so-called evidence on ìthe Lenin 
case,î and so on? 
These gentry evidently count on disorganizing our 
ranks, on sowing doubt and dismay in our midst, on breeding 
distrust of our leaders. 
Miserable wretches! They do not know that never 
have our leaders been so near and dear to the working 
class as today, when the bourgeois scum have grown 
insolent and are trying to cover their names with mud.

J. V. S T A L I N 150
Venal mercenaries! They do not suspect that the 
viler the scurrility of the hirelings of the bourgeoisie, 
the stronger is the love of the workers for their leaders, 
and the greater their confidence in them; for they know 
from experience that when the enemy abuses the leaders 
of the proletariat it is a sure sign that the leaders 
are serving the proletariat honestly. 
Messrs. the Alexinskys and Burtsevs, the Pereverzevs 
and Dobronravovsóaccept our gift, the shameful brand 
of unscrupulous slanderers! We present it to you in the 
name of the 32,000 organized workers of Petrograd who 
elected us. Accept it, and wear it to your grave. You 
deserve it. 
And you, Messieurs the capitalists and landlords, 
bankers and profiteers, priests and secret service spies, 
who are all forging chains for the peoplesóyou are celebrating 
victory too early. If you think the time has 
come for you to bury the Great Russian Revolution, you 
are out in your reckoning. 
The revolution lives, worthy gravediggers, and it 
will yet make its power felt. 
The war and the economic disruption are continuing, 
and the wounds they are causing cannot be healed by 
savage repressions. 
The subterranean forces of the revolution are alive 
and are carrying on their tireless work of revolutionizing 
the country. 
The peasants have not yet received land. They will 
fight, because without land they cannot live. 
The workers have not yet achieved control over the 
mills and factories. They will fight for í it, because 
industrial disruption threatens them with unemployment.

TO ALL THE TOILERS 151 
The soldiers and sailors are being pushed back into 
the old discipline. They will fight for liberty, because 
they have earned the right to it. 
No, Messieurs the counter-revolutionaries, the revolution 
is not dead; it is only lying low, in order to muster 
new followers and then hurl itself upon its enemies with 
redoubled energy. 
ìWe live! Our scarlet blood seethes with the fire of 
unspent strength!î 
And over there, in the West, in Britain and Germany, 
in France and Austriaóis not the banner of the workersí 
revolution already flying, are not Soviets of Workersí 
and Soldiersí Deputies already being formed? 
There will be battles yet! 
There will be victories still! 
The thing is to be ready to meet the coming battles 
in fitting and organized fashion. 
Workers, to you has fallen the honour of being the 
leader of the Russian revolution. Rally the masses around 
you and muster them under the banner of our Party. 
Remember that in the grim July days, when the enemies 
of the people were firing on the revolution, the Bolsheviks 
were the only party that did not desert the working 
class districts. Remember that in those grim days the 
Mensheviks and Socialist-Revolutionaries were in one 
camp with those who suppressed and disarmed the 
workers. 
Muster under our banner, comrades! 
Peasants, your leaders have not justified your hopes. 
They have followed in the wake of the counter-revolutionaries 
and you remain without land; for as long as the 
counter-revolutionaries prevail you will not get the landed

J. V. S T A L I N 152 
estates. Your only true allies are the workers. Only in 
alliance with them will you secure land and liberty. Rally, 
then, around the workers! 
Soldiers, the strength of the revolution lies in the 
alliance of the people and the soldiers. Ministers come 
and go, but the people remains. Be, then, always with 
the people and fight in its ranks! 
Down With the Counter-revolution! 
Long Live the Revolution! 
Long Live Socialism and the Fraternity of Peoples! 
Petrograd City Conference of the 
Russian Social-Democratic Labour 
Party (Bolsheviks) 
Rabochy i Soldat, No. 2, 
July 24, 1917

TWO CONFERENCES47 
Two conferences. Both city conferences, Petrograd 
conferences. 
One a Menshevik conference. The other a Bolshevik 
conference. 
The first representing 8,000 workers in all. 
The second representing 32,000. 
The first a scene of chaos and disintegration, for it 
is on the point of splitting into two. 
The second a scene of unity and solidarity. 
The first derives its strength from compromise with 
the Cadet bourgeoisie. And it is for this very reason that 
it is divided, for there are still honest people among the 
Mensheviks who refuse to follow in the wake of the bourgeoisie. 
The second, on the contrary, derives its strength not 
from arrangements with the bourgeoisie, but from the 
revolutionary struggle of the workers against the capitalists 
and landlords. 
The first believes that the ìsalvation of the countryî 
lies in eradicating Bolshevism and betraying the revolution. 
The second believes that it lies in sweeping away the 
counter-revolutionaries and their ìsocialistî hangers-on. 
They say that Bolshevism is dead and buried.

J. V. S T A L I N 154 
But our esteemed gravediggers are showing undue 
haste in burying us. We are still alive, and the bourgeoisie 
will have plenty of occasion to start and tremble 
at the sound of our voice. 
On the one hand, 32,000 united Bolsheviks standing 
for the revolution; on the other, 8,000 disunited Mensheviks 
the majority of whom have betrayed the revolution. 
Make your choice, comrade workers! 
Rabochy i Soldat, No. 2, 
July 24, 1917 
Unsigned

THE NEW GOVERNMENT 
The Ministerial shuffle is over. A new government 
has been formed. Cadets, pro-Cadets, Socialist-Revolutionaries, 
Mensheviksósuch is its composition. 
The Cadet Party is satisfied. Its major demands have 
been accepted. They will serve as the basis of the activities 
of the new government. 
The Cadets wanted the government strengthened at the 
expense of the Soviets, and they wanted it to be independent 
of the Soviets. The Soviets, led by ìbad shepherdsî 
from the Socialist-Revolutionaries and Mensheviks, have 
conceded this, thus signing their own death warrant. 
The Cadets have got what they wanted: the Provisional 
Government is now the sole authority. 
The Cadets demanded ìrestoration of the armyís morale,î 
that is, ìiron disciplineî in the army, and its subordination 
only to its immediate commanders, who, in 
their turn, would be subordinate only to the government. 
The Soviets, led by the Socialist-Revolutionaries and 
Mensheviks, have conceded this too, thus disarming 
themselves. 
The Cadets have got what they wanted: the Soviets 
deprived of the army, and the army subordinated only to 
a government made up of pro-Cadet elements.

J. V. S T A L I N 156 
The Cadets demanded unconditional unity with the 
Allies. The Soviets have ìresolutelyî accepted this course 
in the interests of . . . ìnational defence,î forgetting 
their ìinternationalistî declarations. And the so-called 
program of July 8 has become a dead letter. 
The Cadets have got what they wanted: a war ìwithout 
mercy,î a ìwar to a finish.î 
Listen to the Cadets themselves: 
ìThe Cadetsí demands have undoubtedly been accepted as 
the basis of the activities of the whole government. . . . Precisely 
for this reason, its major demands having been accepted, the Cadet 
Party thought it unwise to prolong the dispute because of 
specifically party disagreements.î For the Cadets know that under 
present conditions ìvery little time or opportunity will be left 
for the democratic elements of the notorious program of July 8î 
(see Rech). 
Thatís clear enough. 
There was a time when the Soviets were building a 
new life, introducing revolutionary reforms and compelling 
the Provisional Government to confirm these changes 
by its decrees and ukases. 
That was in March and April. 
At that time the Provisional Government followed 
the lead of the Soviets and lent its non-revolutionary flag 
to the Sovietsí revolutionary measures. 
A time has now come when the Provisional Government 
has turned back and is introducing counter-revolutionary 
ìreforms,î while the Soviets find themselves 
ìcompelledî tacitly to endorse them in their milk-andwater 
resolutions. 
The Central Executive Committee, the representative 
of all the Soviets, is now following the lead of the Provi

THE NEW GOVERNMENT 157 
sional Government and is masking the latterís counterrevolutionary 
physiognomy with revolutionary phrasemongering. 
Roles, evidently, have changed, and not in favour of 
the Soviets. 
Yes, the Cadets have reason to be ìsatisfied.î 
Whether for long, the near future will show. 
Rabochy i Soldat, No. 3, 
July 26, 1917 
Editorial

THE CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY 
ELECTIONS48 
The Constituent Assembly Election campaign has begun. 
The parties are already mobilizing their forces. The 
prospective candidates of the Cadets are already touring 
the country, sounding their chances of success. The Socialist- 
Revolutionaries have convened a conference of gubernia 
peasant representatives in Petrograd for the purpose 
of ìorganizingî the elections. Another group of 
Narodniks is convening a congress of the All-Russian 
Peasantsí Union49 in Moscow for the same purpose. Simultaneously, 
non-party ìGarrison Soviets of Peasantsí 
Deputiesî are spontaneously springing up, for the purpose, 
among other things, of seeing to it that the election campaign 
is effectively conducted in the countryside. For 
the same purpose numerous societies are being formed by 
workers originating from the same rural areas, and are 
sending persons and literature to the villages. Lastly, 
individual factories are sending special delegates to 
carry on election propaganda in rural areas. This quite 
apart from the innumerable individual ìdelegates,î 
mainly soldiers and sailors, who are travelling the 
country and bringing the peasants ìnews from the 
towns.î 
Evidently, the significance of the moment and the 
cardinal importance of the Constituent Assembly are

THE CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY ELECTIONS 159 
appreciated by the broadest sections of the population. 
And everyone feels that the rural districts, which represent 
the majority of the population, will play the decisive 
role, and that it is there that all available forces 
should be sent. All this, coupled with the fact that the 
agricultural labourersóthe principal support of our Party 
in the rural districtsóare scattered and unorganized, 
greatly adds to the difficulty of our work in the countryside. 
Unlike the urban workers, who are the most highly 
organized section of the urban population, the rural labourers 
are the most unorganized. The Soviets of Peasantsí 
Deputies chiefly organize the middle and well-todo 
sections of the peasantry, who are naturally inclined 
to compromise ìwith the liberal landlord and capitalist.î 
It is they, too, who lead the proletarian and semiproletarian 
elements of the rural districts and bring them 
under the influence of the compromising Trudovik and 
Socialist-Revolutionary parties. The inadequate development 
of agricultural capitalism and of the class struggle 
in the countryside creates favourable conditions for such 
a compromising policy. 
The immediate task of our Party is to deliver the poorer 
strata of the peasantry from the influence of the 
Trudoviks and Socialist-Revolutionaries and to unite 
them with the urban workers in one fraternal family. 
Developments themselves are working in this direction, 
step by step exposing the futility of the policy of 
compromise. The task of our Party workers is to intervene 
in the Constituent Assembly elections to the utmost 
for the purpose of disclosing the perniciousness of 
this policy, and thus help the poorer strata of the peasantry 
to rally around the urban proletariat.

J. V. S T A L I N 160 
For this purpose it is necessary immediately to create 
nuclei of our Party in the rural areas and link them 
closely with the Party committees in the towns. We must 
form Party groups of poor peasants, men and women, in 
every volost, in every uyezd, in every constituency. 
These groups must be connected with our committees 
in the industrial centres of the particular gubernia. It 
should be the duty of these committees to supply the 
groups with the necessary election material, literature 
and cadres. 
Only in this way and in the course of the campaign 
itself will it be possible to create real unity between the 
proletarians of town and country. 
We are opposed to agreement with the capitalists and 
landlords, because we know that the interests of the 
workers and peasants can only suffer from such agreement. 
But that does not mean that we are opposed to all 
agreements in general. 
We are in favour of agreement with the non-party 
groups of propertyless peasants which life itself is impelling 
on to the path of revolutionary struggle against the 
landlords and capitalists. 
We are in favour of agreement with the non-party 
organizations of soldiers and sailors which are imbued with 
confidence, not in the rich but in the poor, not in the 
government of the bourgeoisie but in the people, and, 
above all, in the working class. To repel such groups and 
organizations because they cannot or do not want to 
merge with our Party would be unwise and harmful. 
That is why our election campaign in the rural districts 
must aim at finding a common language with such

THE CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY ELECTIONS 161 
groups and organizations, at working out a common revolutionary 
platform, at drawing up joint lists of candidates 
with them in all the constituencies, which should 
include not ìprofessorsî and ìsavants,î but peasants, 
soldiers and sailors who are prepared staunchly to back 
the demands of the people. 
Only in that way will it be possible to rally the broad 
strata of the rural toiling population around the leader 
of our revolution, the proletariat. 
There is no need to make a long search for such nonparty 
groups, for they are springing up continually everywhere. 
And they will continue to spring up owing to the 
growing distrust in the Provisional Government, which 
is preventing the Peasant Committees from disposing 
of the landed estates. They are growing and will continue 
to grow owing to the dissatisfaction with the policy of 
the All-Russian Executive Committee of Peasantsí Deputies, 
which is following in the wake of the Provisional 
Government. An example of this is the recently formed 
ìSoviet of Peasantsí Deputies of Petrograd,î50 which 
embraces the entire garrison of the city, and which from 
its very inception came into conflict with the Provisional 
Government and the All-Russian Executive Committee 
of Peasantsí Deputies. 
The following is a model platform that might serve as 
a basis of agreement with such non-party organizations 
of peasants and soldiers: 
1. We are opposed to the landlords and capitalists 
and their ìParty of Popular Freedom,î because they, and 
they alone, are the chief enemies of the Russian people. 
No confidence in, and no support for, the rich and their 
government!

J. V. S T A L I N 162 
2. We give our confidence and support to the working 
class, the devoted champion of socialism; we are for 
alliance and agreement of the peasants, soldiers and 
sailors with the workers against the landlords and capitalists. 
3. We are opposed to the war, for it is a war of conquest. 
Any talk about peace without annexations will 
remain empty prating so long as the war is waged on 
the basis of the secret treaties concluded by the tsar 
with the British and French capitalists. 
4. We are in favour of the speediest ending of the 
war by means of a determined struggle of the peoples 
against their imperialist governments. 
5. We are opposed to the anarchy in industry, which 
is being aggravated by the capitalists. We are in favour 
of workersí control over industry; we are in favour of 
industry being organized on democratic lines by the intervention 
of the workers themselves and of a government 
recognized by them. 
6. We are in favour of well-organized exchange 
of products between town and country, so that the 
towns may be supplied with sufficient quantities of 
provisions and the rural districts with sugar, paraffin, 
footwear, textiles, hardware and other necessary 
goods. 
7. We are in favour of all the landóappanage, state, 
crown, landlord, monastery and churchóbeing transferred 
to the whole people without compensation. 
8. We are in favour of all unused land, arable and 
grazing, belonging to the landlords, being placed immediately 
at the disposal of democratically elected Peasant 
Committees.

THE CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY ELECTIONS 163 
9. We are in favour of all unused draft animals and 
farm implements now in the possession of landlords or in 
warehouses being placed immediately at the disposal of 
the Peasant Committees to be used for purposes of 
tillage, mowing, harvesting, etc. 
10. We are in favour of all disabled soldiers, as well 
as widows and orphans, being paid allowances adequate 
to maintain a decent human existence. 
11. We are in favour of a peopleís republic, without 
a standing army, bureaucracy, or police force. 
12. In place of a standing army we demand a national 
guard with elected commanders. 
13. In place of a non-accountable bureaucratic officialdom 
we demand that government servants be elected 
and subject to recall. 
14. In place of a police exercising tutelage over the 
people we demand a militia chosen by election and subject 
to recall. 
15. We are in favour of the annulment of the ìordersî 
directed against the soldiers and sailors. 
16. We are opposed to the disbanding of regiments and 
the incitement of soldier against soldier. 
17. We are opposed to the persecution of the workersí 
and soldiersí press; we are opposed to restriction of free 
speech and assembly whether in the rear or at the front; 
we are opposed to arrests without trial; we are opposed to 
disarmament of the workers. 
18. We are opposed to the reintroduction of the death 
penalty. 
19. We are in favour of all the nations of Russia being 
granted the right freely to arrange their lives in their

J. V. S T A L I N 164 
own way, and of none of them being subjected to oppression. 
20. Lastly, we are in favour of all power in the 
country being turned over to the revolutionary Soviets 
of Workers and Peasants, for only such power can lead 
the country out of the impasse into which it has been 
driven by the war, the economic disruption and the high 
cost of living, and by the capitalists and landlords, who 
are battening on the peopleís need. 
Such, in general, is the platform that might serve as 
a basis of agreement between our Party organizations 
and the non-party revolutionary groups of peasants 
and soldiers. 
Comrades, the elections are approaching. Intervene 
before it is too late and organize the election campaign. 
Set up mobile groups of propagandists consisting of 
working men and women, soldiers and sailors, and arrange 
short lectures on the subject of the platform. 
Furnish these groups with literature and send them 
out to the four corners of Russia. 
Let their voice arouse the countryside to the forthcoming 
elections to the Constituent Assembly. 
Set up Party groups in the volosts and uyezds and 
rally the mass of the poor peasantry around them. 
Organize conferences in volosts, uyezds and gubernias 
for the purpose of strengthening revolutionary 
party connections and nominating candidates to the Constituent 
Assembly. 
The importance of the Constituent Assembly is immense. 
But immeasurably greater is the importance of 
the masses who are outside the Constituent Assembly. 
The source of strength will not be the Constituent Assem

THE CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY ELECTIONS 165 
bly itself, but the workers and peasants who by their 
struggle are creating a new revolutionary law and will 
impel the Constituent Assembly forward. 
Know that the more organized the revolutionary 
masses are, the more attentively will the Constituent 
Assembly heed their voice, and the more assured will 
be the future of the Russian revolution. 
The chief task in the elections, therefore, is to rally 
the broad mass of the peasantry around our Party. 
To work, comrades! 
Rabochy i Soldat, No. 4, 
July 27, 1917 
Signed: K. Stalin

SPEECHES 
DELIVERED AT THE SIXTH CONGRESS 
OF THE R.S.D.L.P. (BOLSHEVIKS) 
July 26-August 3, 1917 51 
1. REPORT OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE 
July 27 
Comrades, the Central Committeeís report embraces 
its activities during the past two and a half monthsó 
May, June and the early half of July. 
The Central Committeeís activities in the month of 
May were directed along three lines. 
First, it issued the call for new elections to the Soviets 
of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies. The Central Committee 
proceeded from the fact that our revolution was 
developing along peaceful lines, and that the composition 
of the Soviets of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies, and 
hence of the government, could be altered by new elections 
to the Soviets. Our opponents accused us of trying 
to seize power. That was a calumny. We had no such 
intention. We said that we had the opportunity by means 
of new elections to the Soviets to change the character 
of the activity of the Soviets and make it conform 
with the wishes of the broad masses. It was clear to us 
that a majority of one vote in the Soviets of Workersí 
and Soldiersí Deputies would be enough to make the 
government take a different course. New elections were 
therefore the keynote of our work in the month of May.

SPEECHES AT THE SIXTH CONGRESS OF THE R.S.D.L.P.(B.) 167 
In the end we won about half the seats in the workersí 
group of the Soviet, and about one quarter in the soldiersí 
group. 
Second, agitation against the war. We took the occasion 
of the death sentence passed on Friedrich Adler52 
to organize a number of protest meetings against capital 
punishment and against the war. That campaign was 
well received by the soldiers. 
The third aspect of the Central Committeeís activities 
was the municipal elections in May. Jointly with the 
Petrograd Committee, the Central Committee exerted 
every effort to give battle both to the Cadets, the main 
force of counter-revolution, and to the Mensheviks and 
Socialist-Revolutionaries, who willingly or unwillingly 
followed the Cadets. We secured about 20 per cent of 
the 800,000 votes cast in Petrograd. The Vyborg District 
Duma we won entirely. Outstanding service was rendered 
the Party by our soldier and sailor comrades. 
Thus the outstanding features in May were: 1) the 
municipal elections; 2) agitation against the war, and 
3) the elections to the Soviets of Workersí and Soldiersí 
Deputies. 
June. Rumours of preparation for an offensive at 
the front were making the soldiers restless. A series of 
orders were issued abrogating the rights of the soldiers. 
All this electrified the masses. Every rumour spread 
through Petrograd like wildfire, stirring up unrest among 
the workers and especially the soldiers. Rumours of an 
offensive; Kerenskyís orders and declaration of the rights 
of the soldier; the evacuation from Petrograd of ìunnecessaryî 
elementsóas the authorities called them, it 
being clear, however, that what they wanted was to rid

J. V. S T A L I N 168 
Petrograd of revolutionary elements; the economic disruption, 
which was becoming ever more tangibleó 
all this was making the workers and soldiers restless. Meetings 
were organized at the factories, and we were being 
constantly urged by regiments and factories to organize 
a demonstration. It was planned to hold a demonstration 
on June 5. But the Central Committee resolved not to 
hold a demonstration for the time being, but to convene 
a meeting of representatives of the districts, factories, 
mills and regiments on June 7 and to decide there the 
question of a demonstration. This meeting was called 
and was attended by about 200 persons. It became 
evident that the soldiers were particularly restless. By an 
overwhelming majority of votes it was decided to demonstrate. 
The question was debated as to what should be 
done if the Congress of Soviets, which had just opened, 
should declare against a demonstration. The vast 
majority of the comrades who took the floor were of 
the opinion that nothing could prevent the demonstration 
from being held. After that the Central Committee 
decided to take it upon itself to organize a peaceful demonstration. 
The soldiers wanted to know whether they 
could not come armed, but the Central Committee resolved 
against the carrying of arms. The soldiers, however, 
said that it was impossible to come unarmed, that arms 
were the only effective guarantee against excesses on 
the part of the bourgeois public, and that they would 
bring arms only for purposes of self-defence. 
On June 9 the Central Committee, the Petrograd Committee 
and the Army Organization held a joint meeting. 
The Central Committee raised the following point: in 
view of the fact that the Congress of Soviets and all the

SPEECHES AT THE SIXTH CONGRESS OF THE R.S.D.L.P.(B.) 169 
ìsocialistî parties were opposed to our demonstration, 
would it not be well to postpone it? All replied in the 
negative. 
At midnight the same day the Congress of Soviets 
issued a manifesto in which it brought the whole weight 
of its authority against us. The Central Committee resolved 
not to hold the demonstration on June 10 and to 
postpone it to June 18, seeing that on that day the Congress 
of Soviets was itself calling a demonstration, at 
which the masses would be able to express their will. 
The workers and soldiers greeted the Central Committeeís 
decision with repressed dissatisfaction, but obeyed it. 
It is characteristic, comrades, that on the morning of June 
10, when a number of speakers from the Congress of Soviets 
addressed factory meetings urging the ìliquidation 
of the attempt to organize a demonstration,î the 
overwhelming majority of the workers agreed to listen 
only to the speakers of our Party. The Central Committee 
succeeded in pacifying the soldiers and workers. 
This was indicative of our high level of organization. 
When arranging the demonstration for June 18 the 
Congress of Soviets announced that freedom of slogans 
would be allowed. It was evident that the Congress had 
decided to give battle to our Party. We accepted the 
challenge, and began to muster our forces for the coming 
demonstration. 
The comrades know how the demonstration of June 
18 went off. Even the bourgeois papers said that the overwhelming 
majority of the demonstrators marched under 
the slogans of the Bolsheviks. The principal slogan was 
ìAll power to the Soviets!î No fewer than 400,000

J. V. S T A L I N 170 
persons marched in the procession. Only three small 
groupsóthe Bund, the Cossacks and the Plekhanovitesó 
ventured to display the slogan ìConfidence in the Provisional 
Government!îó and even they repented it, for 
they were compelled to furl their banners. The Congress of 
Soviets was given proof positive of how great the strength 
and influence of our Party was. It was the general conviction 
that the demonstration of June 18, which was more 
imposing than the demonstration of April 21, was bound 
to have its effect. And it should indeed have had its 
effect. Rech averred that in all probability there would be 
important changes in the government, because the policy 
of the Soviets was not approved by the masses. But that 
very day our armies launched an offensive at the front, 
a successful offensive, and the ìBlacksî began a demonstration 
on the Nevsky Prospect in honour of it. That 
obliterated the moral victory gained by the Bolsheviks 
at the demonstration. It also obliterated the chances of 
the practical results which had been spoken of by both 
Rech and official spokesmen of the ruling parties, the 
Socialist-Revolutionaries and Mensheviks. 
The Provisional Government remained in power. The 
successful offensive, partial successes of the Provisional 
Government, and a number of projects to withdraw the 
troops from Petrograd had their effect on the soldiers. 
These facts convinced them that passive imperialism was 
changing to active imperialism. They realized that a 
period of fresh sacrifices had begun. 
The front reacted to the policy of active imperialism 
in its own way. A whole number of regiments, in spite of 
orders to the contrary, began to take a vote on the question 
of whether to attack or not. The higher command

SPEECHES AT THE SIXTH CONGRESS OF THE R.S.D.L.P.(B.) 171 
failed to realize that in the new conditions prevailing 
in Russia, and in view of the fact that the aims of 
the war had not been made clear, it was impossible to 
hurl the masses blindly into an offensive. What we 
had predicted occurred: the offensive was doomed to 
failure. 
The latter part of June and the beginning of July were 
dominated by the policy of the offensive. Rumours were 
circulating that the death penalty had been reintroduced, 
that a whole number of regiments were being disbanded, 
that soldiers at the front were being subjected to maltreatment. 
Delegates arrived from the front with reports of 
the arrest and beating up of soldiers in their own units. 
There were similar reports from the grenadier regiment 
and the machine-gun regiment. All this prepared the 
ground for another demonstration of the workers and 
soldiers of Petrograd. 
I now come to the events of July 3-5. It all began on 
July 3, at three in the afternoon, at the premises of the 
Petrograd Committee. 
July 3, 3 p.m. The Petrograd City Conference of our 
Party was in session. The most inoffensive of questions 
was being discussedóthe municipal elections. Two representatives 
of one of the regiments of the garrison appeared. 
They raised a matter of urgency. Their regiment 
had ìdecided to come out this evening,î because they 
ìcould not stand it any longer in silence when regiment 
after regiment was being disbanded at the front,î and 
they had ìalready sent round their delegates to the factories 
and regimentsî inviting them to join the demonstration. 
In reply to this, Comrade Volodarsky, speaking for 
the presidium of the conference, said that ìthe Party

J. V. S T A L I N 172 
had already decided not to demonstrate, and Party members 
in the regiment must not dare to disobey the Partyís 
decision.î 
4 p.m. The Petrograd Committee, Army Organization 
and Central Committee of the Party, having discussed the 
question, resolve not to demonstrate. The resolution is 
approved by the conference, whose members disperse to 
the factories and regiments to dissuade the comrades 
from demonstrating. 
5 p.m. A meeting of the Bureau of the Central Executive 
Committee of the Soviets in the Taurida Palace. 
On the instructions of the Central Committee of the 
Party, Comrade Stalin makes a statement to the Bureau 
of the Central Executive Committee on what has occurred, 
and reports that the Bolsheviks have decided 
against a demonstration. 
7 p.m. In front of the headquarters of the Petrograd 
Committee. Several regiments march up with banners 
displaying the slogan ìAll power to the Soviets!î They 
stop in front of the Petrograd Committee promises and 
request that members of our organization ìsay a few 
words.î Two Bolshevik speakers, Lashevich and Kurayev, 
explain the current political situation and urge 
against demonstrating. They are received with cries of 
ìGet down!î Members of our organization then suggest 
that the soldiers elect a delegation to convey their wishes 
to the Central Executive Committee of the Soviets and 
then disperse to their regiments. This proposal is greeted 
with deafening cheers. The band plays the Marseillaise. . . . 
By this time the news flies round Petrograd that the Cadets 
have resigned from the government, and the workers 
become restless. Following the soldiers, columns of work

SPEECHES AT THE SIXTH CONGRESS OF THE R.S.D.L.P.(B.) 173 
ers appear. Their slogans are the same as the soldiersí. 
The soldiers and the workers march off to the Taurida 
Palace. 
9 p.m. Headquarters of the Petrograd Committee. 
A succession of delegates arrives from the factories. They 
all request our Party organizations to join in and assume 
direction of the demonstration. Otherwise there ìwill be 
bloodshed.î Voices are raised suggesting that delegations 
should be elected from the mills and factories to make the 
will of the demonstrators known to the Central Executive 
Committee of the Soviets, and that the masses; after 
hearing the reports of the delegations, should disperse 
peacefully. 
10 p.m. Meeting of the Workersí Section of the Petrograd 
Soviet of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies in the 
Taurida Palace. In consequence of the reports of the 
workers that the demonstration has already begun, the 
majority of the section decide to join in the demonstration 
in order to avert excesses and to lend it a peaceful 
and organized character. A minority do not agree with 
this decision and walk out of the meeting. The majority 
elect a bureau to carry out the decision just adopted. 
11 p.m. The Central Committee and Petrograd 
Committee of our Party shift their meeting place to the 
Taurida Palace, to which the demonstrators have been 
marching all the evening. Agitators from the districts 
and representatives from the factories arrive. Representatives 
of the Central Committee of our Party, the Petrograd 
Committee, the Army Organization, the Mezhrayonny 
Committee and the Bureau of the Workersí Section of 
the Petrograd Soviet hold a meeting. The reports from 
the districts make it clear:

J. V. S T A L I N 174 
1) That the workers and soldiers cannot be restrained 
from demonstrating the following day; 
2) That the demonstrators will carry arms exclusively 
for self-defence, as an effective guarantee against 
provocative shots that may be fired from the Nevsky 
Prospect: ìItís not so easy to fire on armed men.î 
The meeting decides that at a time when the revolutionary 
worker and soldier masses are demonstrating 
under the slogan ìAll power to the Soviets!î the party 
of the proletariat has no right to wash its hands of and 
stand aloof from the movement; it cannot abandon the 
masses to the caprice of fate; it must remain with the 
masses in order to lend the spontaneous movement a 
conscious and organized character. The meeting decides 
to recommend the workers and soldiers to elect delegates 
from the regiments and factories and through them declare 
their wishes to the Executive Committee of the 
Soviets. An appeal for a ìpeaceful and organized demonstrationî 
is drawn up on the lines of this decision.53 
Midnight. Over 30,000 Putilov workers arrive at 
the Taurida Palace with banners displaying the slogan: 
ìAll power to the Soviets!î Delegates are elected. The 
delegates report the demands of the Putilov workers to 
the Executive Committee. The soldiers and workers in 
front of the Taurida Palace begin to disperse. 
July 4. Daytime. The procession of workers and 
soldiers, carrying banners and Bolshevik slogans, 
marches to the Taurida Palace. The tail of the procession 
consists of thousands of sailors from Kronstadt. There 
are no fewer than 400,000 demonstratorsóaccording 
to the bourgeois papers (Birzhovka). The streets are 
scenes of jubilation. Friendly cheers from the public

SPEECHES AT THE SIXTH CONGRESS OF THE R.S.D.L.P.(B.) 175 
greet the demonstrators. In the afternoon excesses begin. 
Sinister elements in the bourgeois districts cast a dark 
shadow over the workersí demonstration by firing provocative 
shots. Even Birzheviye Vedomosti does not 
venture to deny that the shooting was started by opponents 
of the demonstration. ìPrecisely at two oíclock,î 
it writes (July 4, evening edition), ìon the corner of the 
Sadovaya and the Nevsky Prospect, as the armed demonstrators 
were filing past and large numbers of the public 
were quietly looking on, a deafening report came from 
the right side of the Sadovaya, after which shots began 
to be fired in volleys.î 
Obviously, it was not the demonstrators that started 
the shooting; it was ìunknown personsî who fired 
on the demonstrators, not vice versa. 
Firing went on simultaneously in several places 
in the bourgeois part of the town. The provocators were 
not dozing. Nevertheless, the demonstrators did not 
go beyond necessary self-defence. There was absolutely 
no sign of a conspiracy or insurrection. Not a single 
government or public building was seized, nor even 
was an attempt made to do so, although, with the 
tremendous armed force at their disposal, the demonstrators 
could quite easily have captured not only individual 
buildings, but the whole city. . . . 
8 p.m. At a meeting of the Central Committee, the 
Mezhrayonny Committee and other organizations of our 
Party in the Taurida Palace it is decided that now that 
the revolutionary workers and soldiers have demonstrated 
their will, the action should be stopped. An appeal 
is drawn up on these lines: ìThe demonstration is over. . . . 
Our watchword is: Staunchness, restraint, calmî

J. V. S T A L I N 176 
(see the appeal in Listok Pravdy54). The appeal was 
sent to Pravda but could not appear on July 5, because 
on the night of the 4th the Pravda offices were wrecked 
by military cadets and secret agents. 
10-11 p.m. In the Taurida Palace the Central Executive 
Committee of the Soviets discusses the question of 
the government. After the resignation of the Cadets the 
position of the Socialist-Revolutionaries and Mensheviks 
has become very critical: they ìneedî a bloc with the bourgeoisie, 
but a bloc is impossible because the bourgeoisie 
want no more agreements with them. A bloc with the 
Cadets is no longer feasible. Hence the question of the Soviets 
taking over power themselves arises with full force. 
There are rumours that our front has been pierced 
by the Germans. True, these rumours are still unconfirmed, 
but they cause uneasiness. 
There are rumours that on the following day a statement 
will appear in the press containing an infamous 
slander against Comrade Lenin. 
The Central Executive Committee of the Soviets 
calls out soldiers (of the Volhynia regiment) to protect 
the Taurida Palace. From whom? From the Bolsheviks, 
it appears, who have allegedly come to the palace to 
ìarrestî the Executive Committee and ìseize power.î 
That is said of the Bolsheviks, who had been advocating 
the strengthening of the Soviets and the transference 
to them of all authority in the country! . . . 
2-3 a.m. The Central Executive Committee of the 
Soviets does not assume power. It instructs the ìsocialistî 
Ministers to form a new government and to get at 
least a few bourgeois into it. The Ministers are furnished 
with emergency powers to ìcombat anarchy.î The matter

SPEECHES AT THE SIXTH CONGRESS OF THE R.S.D.L.P.(B.) 177 
is clear: the Central Executive Committee, faced with 
the necessity of resolutely breaking with the bourgeoisie 
ówhich it particularly fears to do, because it has hitherto 
derived its strength from ìcombinationsî in one form 
or another with the bourgeoisieóresponds by resolutely 
breaking with the workers and the Bolsheviks, in order 
to join with the bourgeoisie and turn its weapons against 
the revolutionary workers and soldiers. Thus a campaign 
is launched against the revolution. The Socialist-Revolutionaries 
and Mensheviks open fire on the revolution, 
to the glee of the counter-revolutionaries. . . . 
July 5. The papers (Zhivoye Slovo55) publish the 
statement with the infamous slander against Comrade 
Lenin. Pravda does not appear, because its offices 
were wrecked on the night of July 4. A dictatorship 
of the ìsocialistî Ministers, who are seeking a bloc 
with the Cadets, is established. The Mensheviks and 
Socialist-Revolutionaries, who had not wanted to 
take power, now take it (for a short period) in order to 
crush the Bolsheviks. . . . Army units from the front 
appear in the streets. Gangs of military cadets and counterrevolutionaries 
go about wrecking, making searches 
and committing acts of ruffianism. The witch-hunt 
against Lenin and the Bolsheviks raised by Alexinsky, 
Pankratov and Pereverzev is exploited to the full by 
the counter-revolutionaries. The counter-revolution hourly 
gains momentum. The hub of the dictatorship is the 
army staff. The secret service agents, the military cadets, 
the Cossacks run riot. Arrests and manhandlings. The open 
attack of the Central Executive Committee of the 
Soviets against the Bolshevik workers and soldiers unleashes 
the forces of counter-revolution. . . .

J. V. S T A L I N 178 
In reply to the slanders of Alexinsky and Co., the 
Central Committee of our Party issues the leaflet, ìTry 
the Slanderers!î56 The Central Committeeís appeal 
to call off the strike and demonstration (which could 
not appear in Pravda because of the wrecking of its offices) 
appears as a separate leaflet. One is struck by the absence 
of any appeals from the other ìsocialistî parties. 
The Bolsheviks are alone. Against them have tacitly 
combined all the elements to the Right of the Bolsheviksó
from Suvorin and Milyukov to Dan and Chernov. 
July 6. The bridges have been raised. The pacifier Mazurenko 
and his composite detachment are doing their punitive 
work. In the streets, troops are suppressing recalcitrants. 
There is a virtual state of siege. ìSuspectsî 
are arrested and taken to military headquarters. Workers, 
soldiers and sailors are being disarmed. Petrograd 
has been placed under the power of the military. Much 
as the ìpowers that beî would like to incite a so-called 
ìbattle,î the workers and soldiers do not succumb to 
the provocation and do not ìaccept battle.î The Fortress 
of Peter and Paul opens its gates to the disarmers. 
The premises of the Petrograd Committee are occupied 
by a composite detachment. Searches are conducted and 
weapons confiscated in the working-class districts. 
Tsereteliís idea of disarming the workers and soldiers, 
which he first timidly formulated on June 11, is now 
being carried into effect. ìMinister of Disarmamentî the 
workers bitterly call him. . . . 
The Trud printing plant is wrecked. Listok Pravdy 
appears. A worker, Voinov, is killed while distributing 
the Listok. . . . The bourgeois press throws off all restraint; 
it represents the infamous slander against Com

SPEECHES AT THE SIXTH CONGRESS OF THE R.S.D.L.P.(B.) 179 
rade Lenin as a fact, and now does not confine its attack 
on the revolution to the Bolsheviks alone, but 
extends it to the Soviets, the Mensheviks, the Socialist-
Revolutionaries. 
It becomes clear that in betraying the Bolsheviks the 
Socialist-Revolutionaries and Mensheviks have betrayed 
themselves, have betrayed the revolution, and have 
unleashed and unbridled the forces of counter-revolution. 
The campaign of the counter-revolutionary dictatorship 
against liberty in the rear and at the front is in full 
swing. From the fact that the Cadet and Allied press, 
which only yesterday was still carping at revolutionary 
Russia, now suddenly feels satisfied, it may be 
concluded that the ìworkî of pacification was not undertaken 
without the participation of the Russian and 
Allied moneybags. 
2. REPLY TO THE DISCUSSION 
July 27 
Comrades, it is evident from the discussion that no one 
criticizes the political line of the Central Committee 
of the Party or objects to its slogans. The Central Committee 
put forward three major slogans: all power to the 
Soviets, control of production, and confiscation of the 
landed estates. These slogans won sympathy among the 
mass of the workers and among the soldiers. They proved to 
be correct, and by waging the fight on that basis we retained 
the support of the masses. I consider this a 
major fact in the Central Committeeís favour. If it issues 
correct slogans at the most difficult moments, this 
shows that in the main the Central Committee is right.

J. V. S T A L I N 180 
Criticism has centred not around primary, but secondary 
matters. It amounted in substance to the claim that 
the Central Committee had not formed contacts with 
the provinces and that its activities had been confined 
chiefly to Petrograd. The reproach of isolation from the 
provinces is not without foundation. But it was utterly 
impossible to cover the entire provinces. The reproach 
that the Central Committee virtually became a Petrograd 
Committee is to some extent justified. This is a fact. 
But it is here, in Petrograd, that the policy of Russia 
is being hammered out. It is here that the directing 
forces of the revolution are located. The provinces react 
to what is done in Petrograd. This, finally, is due to the fact 
that this is the seat of the Provisional Government, 
in whose hands all the power is concentrated, and the 
seat of the Central Executive Committee, which is 
the voice of the whole organized revolutionary democracy. 
On the other hand, events are moving fast, an open 
struggle is in progress, and there is no assurance that 
the existing government may not disappear any day. 
Under such circumstances, to wait until our friends in 
the provinces say their word was quite unthinkable. We 
know that the Central Executive Committee decides 
questions concerning the revolution without waiting 
for the provinces. The whole government apparatus is 
in their hands. And what have we got? The apparatus 
of the Central Committee. And it is, of course, a weak 
apparatus. To demand, therefore, that the Central Committee 
take no steps without first consulting the provinces 
is tantamount to demanding that the Central 
Committee should not march ahead of events but trail 
behind them. But then it would not be a Central Com

SPEECHES AT THE SIXTH CONGRESS OF THE R.S.D.L.P.(B.) 181 
mittee. Only by following the method which we did 
follow could the Central Committee be equal to the 
situation. 
Reproaches have been voiced on particular points. 
Some comrades spoke of the failure of the insurrection 
of July 3-5. Yes, comrades, failure there was; 
only it was not an insurrection, but a demonstration. 
This failure was due to the breach of the front of the 
revolution resulting from the treacherous conduct of 
the petty-bourgeois parties, the Socialist-Revolutionaries 
and Mensheviks, who turned their backs on the 
revolution. 
Comrade Bezrabotny57 said that the Central Committee 
made no effort to flood Petrograd and the provinces 
with leaflets explaining the events of July 3-5. 
But our printing plant had been wrecked, and it was 
physically impossible to get anything printed in other 
printing plants, as this would have exposed them to the 
danger of being wrecked likewise. 
All the same, things here were not so bad: if in 
some of the districts we were arrested, in others we 
found a welcome and were greeted with extraordinary 
enthusiasm. And now, too, the spirit of the Petrograd 
workers is splendid and the prestige of the Bolsheviks is 
immense. 
I should like to raise a few questions. 
Firstly, how should we react to the slanders against 
our leaders? Recent events make it necessary to draw 
up a manifesto to the people explaining all the facts, 
and for this purpose a commission should be elected. 
And I propose that this commission, if you decide to 
elect it, should also issue a manifesto to the revolutionary

J. V. S T A L I N 
FROM MARX 
TO MAO 
 
NOT FOR 
COMMERCIAL 
DISTRIBUTION 
182 
workers and soldiers of Germany, Britain, France, etc., 
informing them of the events of July 3-5 and branding 
the calumniators. We are the most advanced section of 
the proletariat, we are responsible for the revolution, 
and we must tell the whole truth about the events and 
expose the infamous slanderers. 
Secondly, about the refusal of Lenin and Zinoviev 
to appear for ìtrial.î Just now it is still unclear who holds 
the power. There is no guarantee that if they do appear 
they will not be subjected to brutal violence. If the 
court were democratically organized and if a guarantee 
were given that violence would not be committed, 
it would be a different matter. In reply to our inquiries 
at the Central Executive Committee we were told, ìWe 
cannot say what may happen.î Consequently, so long 
as the situation remains unclarified, so long as the silent 
struggle between official power and actual power 
continues, there is no sense in our comrades appearing 
for ìtrial.î I f , however, at the head there will be 
a power which can guarantee our comrades against violence, 
they will appear. 
3. REPORT ON THE POLITICAL SITUATION 
July 30 
Comrades, to discuss the political situation of Russia 
is to discuss the development of our revolution, its victories 
and defeats in the midst of an imperialist war. 
As early as February it was apparent that the main 
forces of our revolution were the proletariat and the 
peasants whom the war has put into soldierís uniform. 
It so happened that in the struggle against tsarism

SPEECHES AT THE SIXTH CONGRESS OF THE R.S.D.L.P.(B.) 183 
there were in the same camp as these forces, and as though 
in alliance with them, other forcesóthe bourgeois liberals 
and Allied capital. 
The proletariat was, and remains, the mortal foe 
of tsarism. 
The peasants put their faith in the proletariat and, 
seeing that they would not receive land unless tsarism 
was overthrown, followed the proletariat. 
The bourgeois liberals were disillusioned in tsarism 
and turned their backs on it, because it had not only 
failed to win them new markets but was even unable 
to retain the old ones, having surrendered fifteen gubernias 
to Germany. 
Allied capital, the friend and well-wisher of Nicholas 
II, was also ìcompelledî to betray tsarism, because 
the latter had not only failed to ensure the ìunited 
frontî it desired, but was clearly preparing to conclude 
a separate peace with Germany into the bargain. 
Tsarism thus found itself isolated. 
This indeed explains the ìamazingî fact that tsarism 
so ìsilently and imperceptibly passed away.î 
But the aims pursued by these forces differed completely. 
The bourgeois liberals and British and French capital 
wanted to make a little revolution in Russia similar 
to that of the Young Turks, in order to rouse the ardour of 
the masses and exploit it for a big war, while the power 
of the capitalists and landlords at bottom remained 
unshaken. 
A little revolution for the sake of a big war! 
The workers and peasants, on the other hand, were 
out for a thorough break-up of the old order, for what

J. V. S T A L I N 184 
we call a great revolution, in order to overthrow the 
landlords and curb the imperialist bourgeoisie so as to 
put an end to the war and ensure peace. 
A great revolution and peace! 
It was this fundamental contradiction that underlay 
the development of our revolution and of each and every 
ìcrisis of power.î 
The ìcrisisî of April 20 and 21 was the first open 
manifestation of this contradiction. If in this series 
of ìcrisesî success so far has on every occasion been 
with the imperialist bourgeoisie, it is to be attributed 
not only to the high degree of organization of the counter-
revolutionary front, headed by the Cadet Party, but 
primarily to the fact that the compromising parties, 
the Socialist-Revolutionaries and Mensheviks, which 
vacillate in favour of imperialism, and which so far have 
the following of the broad masses, every time broke 
the front of revolution, deserted to the camp of the 
bourgeoisie, and so gave the front of counter-revolution 
the advantage. 
So it was in April. 
So it was in July. 
The ìprincipleî of coalition with the imperialist 
bourgeoisie advocated by the Mensheviks and Socialist-
Revolutionaries has proved in practice to be a most 
pernicious weapon, with the help of which the party of 
the capitalists and landlords, the Cadets, isolating 
the Bolsheviks, step by step consolidated its position 
with the helping hand of these same Mensheviks and 
Socialist-Revolutionaries. . . . 
The lull which set in at the front in March, April 
and May was taken advantage of to develop the revolu

SPEECHES AT THE SIXTH CONGRESS OF THE R.S.D.L.P.(B.) 185 
tion further. Spurred on by the general disruption in the 
country, and encouraged by the possession of liberties 
which not a single one of the belligerent countries enjoys, 
the revolution drove deeper and deeper and began 
to put forward social demands. It invaded the economic 
sphere, demanding workersí control in industry, nationalization 
of the land and supply of farm implements 
to the poor peasants, organization of proper exchange 
between town and country, nationalization of the banks 
and, lastly, the assumption of power by the proletariat 
and the poorer strata of the peasantry. The revolution 
came squarely up against the necessity for socialist 
changes. 
Some comrades say that since capitalism is poorly 
developed in our country, it would be utopian to raise 
the question of a socialist revolution. They would be 
right if there were no war, if there were no economic 
disruption, if the foundations of the capitalist organization 
of the national economy were not shaken. The 
question of intervening in the economic sphere is arising 
in all countries as something essential in time of 
war. This question has also arisen of sheer necessity in 
Germany, where it is being settled without the direct 
and active participation of the masses. The case is different 
here in Russia. Here the disruption has assumed 
more ominous proportions. On the other hand, nowhere is 
there such freedom in time of war as in our country. 
Then we must bear in mind the high degree of organization 
of our workers; for instance, 66 per cent of the 
metalworkers of Petrograd are organized. Lastly, the 
proletariat in no other country has, or has had, such 
broad organizations as the Soviets of Workersí and

J. V. S T A L I N 186 
Soldiersí Deputies. Possessing the maximum liberty 
and organization, the workers naturally could not, 
without committing political suicide, abstain from actively 
interfering in the economic life of the country in 
favour of socialist changes. It would be rank pedantry 
to demand that Russia should ìwaitî with socialist 
changes until Europe ìbegins.î That country ìbeginsî 
which has the greater opportunities. . . . 
Inasmuch as the revolution had advanced so far, 
it could not but arouse the vigilance of the counter-revolutionaries; 
it was bound to stimulate counter-revolution. 
This was the first factor which mobilized the counter-
revolution. 
A second factor was the adventurous gamble started 
by the policy of an offensive at the front and the series 
of breaches of the front, which deprived the Provisional 
Government of all prestige and fired the hopes of the 
counter-revolutionaries, who launched an attack on the 
government. There are rumours that a phase of broadly 
conceived provocations has begun in our country. Delegates 
from the front are of the opinion that both the 
offensive and the retreatóin a word, all that has happened 
at the frontówere planned in order to discredit 
the revolution and overthrow the Soviets. I do not know 
whether these rumours are true or not, but it is noteworthy 
that on July 2 the Cadets resigned from the government, 
on the 3rd the July events began, and on the 4th 
came the news of the breach of the front. An amazing 
coincidence! It cannot be said that the Cadets resigned 
because of the decision regarding the Ukraine, because 
the Cadets did not object to the decision on the Ukrainian 
question. There is another fact which indicates that

SPEECHES AT THE SIXTH CONGRESS OF THE R.S.D.L.P.(B.) 187 
a phase of provocation has really begunóI am referring 
to the shooting affray in the Ukraine.58 In the light 
of these facts it should be clear to the comrades that 
the breach of the front was one of the factors in the plan 
of the counter-revolutionaries which were to discredit 
the idea of revolution in the eyes of the broad masses of 
the petty bourgeoisie. 
There is a third factor which has helped to strengthen 
the counter-revolutionary forces in RussiaóAllied capital. 
If, when it saw that tsarism was working for a separate 
peace, Allied capital betrayed Nicholasí government, 
there is nothing to prevent it breaking with the 
present government should it prove incapable of preserving 
the ìunitedî front. Milyukov said at one of the 
sittings that Russia was valued in the international 
market as a supplier of manpower, and received money 
for this, and that if it should turn out that the new governmental 
authority, in the shape of the Provisional Government, 
was incapable of supporting the united front of 
attack on Germany, it would not be worth subsidizing 
such a government. And without money, without credi 
t s , the government was bound to fall. That is the 
secret why the Cadets became a big force at the time of 
the crisis, while Kerensky and all the Ministers were 
mere puppets in the hands of the Cadets. The strength 
of the Cadets lay in the fact that they were supported 
by Allied capital. 
Russia was faced with two courses: 
Either the war was to be ended, all financial ties 
with imperialism severed, the revolution advanced, 
the foundations of the bourgeois world shaken, and an 
era of workersí revolution begun;

J. V. S T A L I N 188 
Or the other course, that of continuing the war, 
continuing the offensive at the front, obeying every 
command of Allied capital and the Cadetsóand 
then complete dependence on Allied capital (there 
were definite rumours in the Taurida Palace that 
America would give 8,000 million rubles for the ìrehabilitationî 
of the economy) and the triumph of counterrevolution. 
There was no third course. 
The attempt of the Socialist-Revolutionaries and 
Mensheviks to make out that the demonstration of July 3 
and 4 was an armed revolt is simply absurd. On July 3 
we proposed a united revolutionary front against counter-
revolution. Our slogan was ìAll power to the Soviets!î 
and, hence, a united revolutionary front. But 
the Mensheviks and Socialist-Revolutionaries feared 
to break with the bourgeoisie, turned their backs 
on us, and thereby broke the revolutionary front in 
deference to the counter-revolutionaries. If those responsible 
for the victory of the counter-revolution are to be 
named, it was the Socialist-Revolutionaries and Mensheviks. 
It is our misfortune that Russia is a country of 
petty bourgeois, and that it still follows the Socialist-
Revolutionaries and Mensheviks, who are compromising 
with the Cadets. And until the masses become 
disillusioned with the idea of compromise with the 
bourgeoisie, the revolution will go haltingly and limpingly. 
The picture we have now is a dictatorship of the imperialist 
bourgeoisie and the counter-revolutionary generals. 
The government, while ostensibly combating this 
dictatorship, is actually carrying out its will, and is

SPEECHES AT THE SIXTH CONGRESS OF THE R.S.D.L.P.(B.) 189 
only a shield protecting it from the wrath of the people. 
The policy of endless concessions pursued by the weakened 
and discredited Soviets only supplements the picture, 
and if the Soviets are not being dispersed, it is because 
they are ìneededî as a ìnecessaryî and very ìconvenientî 
screen. 
Hence the situation has changed fundamentally. 
Our tactics must likewise change. 
Formerly we stood for the peaceful transfer of power 
to the Soviets, and we assumed that it would be sufficient 
for the Central Executive Committee of the Soviets to 
decide to take power, and the bourgeoisie would peacefully 
clear out of the way. And, indeed, in March, April 
and May every decision of the Soviets was regarded 
as law, because it could always be backed by force. 
With the disarmament of the Soviets and their (virtual) 
degradation to the level of mere ìtrade unionî organizations, 
the situation has changed. Now the decisions 
of the Soviets are disregarded. To take power now, 
it is first necessary to overthrow the existing dictatorship. 
Overthrow of the dictatorship of the imperialist 
bourgeoisieóthat is what the immediate slogan of the 
Party must be. 
The peaceful period of the revolution has ended. 
A period of clashes and explosions has begun. 
The slogan of overthrowing the present dictatorship 
can be realized only if there is a powerful new political 
upsurge on a country-wide scale. Such an upsurge is 
inevitable; it is dictated by the countryís whole trend 
of development, by the fact that not a single one of the 
basic issues of the revolution has been decided, for the

J. V. S T A L I N 190 
questions of the land, workersí control, peace and governmental 
power have remained unsettled. 
Repressive measures only aggravate the situation 
without settling a single issue of the revolution. 
The main forces of the new movement will be the 
urban proletariat and the poorer strata of the peasantry. 
It is they that will take power in the event of 
victory. 
The characteristic feature of the moment is that the 
counter-revolutionary measures are being implemented 
through the agency of ìSocialists.î I t i s only because 
it has created such a screen that the counter-revolution 
may continue to exist for another month or 
two. But since the forces of revolution are developing, 
explosions are bound to occur, and the moment will 
come when the workers will raise and rally around them 
the poorer strata of the peasantry, will raise the standard 
of workersí revolution and usher in an era of socialist 
revolution in Europe. 
4. REPLIES TO QUESTIONS 
IN CONNECTION WITH THE REPORT 
ON THE POLITICAL SITUATION 
July 31 
First question: ìWhat forms of militant organization 
does the speaker propose in place of the Soviets of 
Workersí Deputies?î My reply is that the question is 
not put properly. I did not oppose the Soviets as a form 
of organization of the working class. The slogan is determined 
not by the form of organization of the revolutionary 
institution, but by its content, its flesh and

SPEECHES AT THE SIXTH CONGRESS OF THE R.S.D.L.P.(B.) 191 
blood. If the Cadets had entered the Soviets, we should 
never have raised the slogan of transferring power 
to them. 
We are now advancing the demand for the transfer 
of power to the proletariat and poor peasantry. 
Consequently, it is a question not of form, but of the 
class to which power is to be transferred; it is a question 
of the composition of the Soviets. 
The Soviets are the most appropriate form of organization 
of the working-class struggle for power; but the 
Soviets are not the only type of revolutionary organization. 
It is a purely Russian form. Abroad, we have 
seen this role played by the municipalities during the 
Great French Revolution, and by the Central Committee 
of the National Guard during the Paris Commune. 
And even here in Russia the idea of a Revolutionary 
Committee was mooted. Perhaps the Workersí Section 
will be the form best adapted for the struggle for 
power. 
But it must be clearly realized that it is not the 
form of organization that is decisive. 
What really is decisive is whether the working class 
is mature enough for dictatorship; everything else will 
come of itself, will be brought about by the creative action 
of the revolution. 
On questions two and threeówhat, practically, is 
our attitude towards the existing Soviets?ó the reply 
is quite clear. If the point at issue is the transfer of all 
power to the Central Executive Committee of the Soviets, 
this slogan is obsolete. And that is the only point 
at issue. The idea of overthrowing the Soviets is an invention. 
Nobody here has suggested it. The fact that we

J. V. S T A L I N 192 
are proposing to withdraw the slogan ìAll power to 
the Soviets!î does not, however, mean ìDown with 
the Soviets!î And although we are withdrawing the 
slogan, we are not even resigning from the Central Executive 
Committee of the Soviets, in spite of the wretched 
role it has lately been playing. 
The local Soviets have still a role to play, for they 
will have to defend themselves against the attacks of 
the Provisional Government, and in this fight we shall 
support them. 
And so, I repeat, the withdrawal of the demand for 
the transfer of power to the Soviets does not mean ìDown 
with the Soviets!î ìOur attitude towards those Soviets 
in which we have the majorityî is one of the greatest 
sympathy. May they live and flourish. But the might 
is no longer with the Soviets. Formerly, the Provisional 
Government would issue a decree and the Executive 
Committee of the Soviets would issue a counter-decree, 
and it was only the latter that acquired force of law. 
Recall the case of Order No. 1.59 Now, however, the Provisional 
Government ignores the Central Executive 
Committee. The decision that the Central Executive 
Committee of the Soviets would take part in the commission 
of inquiry into the events of July 3-5 was not 
cancelled by the Central Executive Committee; it was 
by order of Kerensky that no effect was given to it. The 
question now is not one of winning a majority in the 
Sovietsówhich in itself is very importantóbut of overthrowing 
the counter-revolutionary dictatorship. 
To question fouróasking for a more concrete definition 
of the concept the ìpoor peasantryî and an indication 
of its form of organizationómy reply is that the

SPEECHES AT THE SIXTH CONGRESS OF THE R.S.D.L.P.(B.) 193 
term ìpoor peasantryî is not a new one. It was introduced 
into Marxist literature by Comrade Lenin in 1905, 
and since then it has been used in nearly every issue of 
Pravda and found a place in the resolutions of the April 
Conference. 
The poorer strata of the peasantry are those which 
are at odds with the upper sections of the peasantry. 
The Soviet of Peasantsí Deputies, which allegedly ìrepresentsî 
80 million peasants (counting women), is 
an organization of the upper sections of the peasantry. 
The lower sections of the peasantry are waging a fierce 
struggle against the policy of this Soviet. Whereas the 
head of the Socialist-Revolutionary Party, Chernov, 
as well as Avksentyev and others, are urging the peasants 
not to seize the land immediately, but to wait for 
a general settlement of the land question by the Constituent 
Assembly, the peasants retort by seizing the 
land and ploughing it, seizing farm implements and 
so on. We have information to this effect from the Penza, 
Voronezh, Vitebsk, Kazan and a number of other gubernias. 
This fact alone clearly indicates that the rural population 
is divided into lower and upper sections, that the 
peasantry no longer exists as an integral whole. The upper 
sections mainly follow the Socialist-Revolutionaries. 
The lower sections cannot live without land, and they 
are in opposition to the Provisional Government. These 
are the peasants who have little land, only one horse 
or no horse at all, etc. Associated with them are the 
sections which have practically no land, the semi-proletarians. 
It would be unwise in a revolutionary period not to 
attempt to reach some agreement with these sections of

J. V. S T A L I N 194 
the peasantry. However, the farm-labourer sections of 
the peasantry should be organized separately and rallied 
around the proletarians. 
What form the organization of these sections will 
take is difficult to predict. At present the lower sections 
of the peasantry are either organizing unauthorized 
Soviets, or are trying to capture the existing Soviets. 
Thus, in Petrograd, about six weeks ago, a Soviet 
of poor peasants was formed (composed of representatives 
from eighty military units and from factories), 
which is waging a fierce struggle against the policy of 
the Soviet of Peasantsí Deputies. 
In general, Soviets are the most appropriate form 
of organization of the masses. We should not, however, 
speak in terms of institutions, but should indicate their 
class content; and we should strive to get the masses too 
to distinguish between form and content. 
Generally speaking, the form of organization is not the 
basic question. If the revolution advances, the organizational 
forms will be forthcoming. We must not let the 
question of form obscure the basic question: to which 
class must power pass? 
Henceforth a bloc with the defencists is unthinkable. 
The defencist parties have bound up their fate with the 
bourgeoisie, and the idea of a bloc extending from the 
Socialist-Revolutionaries to the Bolsheviks has suffered 
fiasco. The question now is to fight the top leaders of 
the Soviets, to fight them in alliance with the poorer 
strata of the peasantry and to sweep away the counterrevolution.

SPEECHES AT THE SIXTH CONGRESS OF THE R.S.D.L.P.(B.) 195 
5. REPLY TO THE DISCUSSION 
July 31 
Comrades, first of all I must make a few corrections 
of fact. 
Comrade Yaroslavsky objects to my assertion 
that the Russian proletariat is the most organized, and 
points to the Austrian proletariat. But, comrades, I 
was speaking of ìred,î revolutionary organization, 
and in no other country is the proletariat organized 
in this way to the same extent as the Russian proletariat. 
Angarsky is quite wrong when he says that I advocate 
the idea of uniting all forces. But we cannot help 
seeing that, for different motives, not only the peasantry 
and the proletariat but also the Russian bourgeoisie 
and foreign capital turned their backs on tsardom. That 
is a fact. And it would be a bad thing if Marxists refused 
to face facts. But later the first two forces took the path 
of developing the revolution further, and the other two 
the path of counter-revolution. 
I shall now pass to the substance of the matter. 
Bukharin put it most trenchantly but he, too, failed 
to carry it to its logical conclusion. Bukharin asserts 
that the imperialist bourgeois have formed a bloc with 
the muzhiks. But with which muzhiks? We have different 
kinds of muzhiks. The bloc has been formed with 
the Right-wing muzhiks; but we have lower, Leftwing 
muzhiks, who represent the poorer strata of the 
peasantry. Now with these the bloc could not have 
been formed. These have not formed a bloc with the 
big bourgeoisie; they follow it because they are po

J. V. S T A L I N 196 
litically undeveloped, they are simply being deceived, 
led by the nose. 
Against whom is the bloc directed? 
Bukharin did not say. It is a bloc of Allied and 
Russian capital, the army officers and the upper sections 
of the peasantry, represented by Socialist- 
Revolutionaries of the Chernov type. This bloc has been 
formed against the lower peasantry and against the 
workers. 
What is the prospect Bukharin held out? His analysis 
is fundamentally wrong. In his opinion, in the 
first stage we are moving towards a peasant revolution. 
But it is bound to concur, to coincide with a workersí 
revolution. It cannot be that the working class, 
which constitutes the vanguard of the revolution, will 
not at the same time fight for i t s own demands. I 
therefore consider that Bukharinís scheme has not 
been properly thought out. 
The second stage, according to Bukharin, will be 
a proletarian revolution supported by Western Europe, 
without the peasants, who will have received land and 
will be satisfied. But against whom would this revolution 
be directed? Bukharinís gimcrack scheme furnishes 
no reply to this question. No other approach to an analysis 
of events has been proposed. 
About the political situation. There is no longer any 
talk of dual power. Formerly the Soviets represented 
a real force; now they are merely organs for uniting the 
masses, and possess no power. That is precisely why it 
i s impossible ìsimplyî to transfer power to them. 
Comrade Lenin, in his pamphlet,60 goes further and definitely 
says that there is no dual power, because the

SPEECHES AT THE SIXTH CONGRESS OF THE R.S.D.L.P.(B.) 197 
whole power has passed into the hands of the capitalists, 
and to advance the slogan ìAll power to the Soviets!î 
now would be quixotic. 
Whereas formerly no laws were of any validity without 
the sanction of the Executive Committee of the Soviets, 
now there is not even talk of dual power. Capture 
all the Soviets, and even so you will have no 
power! 
We jeered at the Cadets during the district Duma 
elections because they represented a miserable group 
which obtained only 20 per cent of the votes. Now they 
are jeering at us. Why? Because, with the connivance of 
the Central Executive Committee of the Soviets, power 
has passed into the hands of the bourgeoisie. 
Comrades are in a hurry to settle the question of 
how to organize the governmental power. But power is 
not yet in your hands! 
The chief task is to preach the necessity of overthrowing 
the existing power. We are still inadequately 
prepared for this. But we must prepare for it. 
The workers, peasants and soldiers must be made 
to realize that unless the present power is overthrown 
they will secure neither freedom nor land! 
And so, the question is not how to organize the governmental 
power, but to overthrow it. Once we have 
seized power we shall know how to organize it. 
Now a few words in reply to Angarskyís and Noginís 
objections on the subject of socialist changes in Russia. 
Already at the April Conference we said that the moment 
had come to begin to take steps towards socialism. 
(Reads the end of the resolution of the April Conference 
ìOn the Current Situation.î)

J. V. S T A L I N 198 
ìThe proletariat of Russia, operating in one of the most backward 
countries of Europe, in the midst of a small-peasant population, 
cannot set itself the aim of introducing socialist changes 
immediately. But it would be a great mistake, and in practice 
even complete desertion to the bourgeoisie, to deduce from this 
that the working class must support the bourgeoisie, or that we 
must confine our activities within limits acceptable to the petty 
bourgeoisie, or that we must reject the leading role of the proletariat 
in the work of explaining to the people the urgency of a series 
of steps towards socialism which are now practically ripe.î 
The comrades are three months behind the times. 
And what has happened in these three months? The 
petty bourgeoisie has split into sections, the lower sections 
are parting ways with the upper sections, the 
proletariat is organizing, and economic disruption is 
spreading, rendering still more urgent the introduction 
of workersí control (for instance, in Petrograd, the Donets 
region, etc.). All this goes to corroborate the theses 
already adopted in April. But the comrades would 
drag us back. 
About the Soviets. The fact that we are withdrawing 
the old slogan about power to the Soviets does not mean 
that we are opposing the Soviets. On the contrary, we 
can and must work in the Soviets, even in the Central 
Executive Committee of the Soviets, that organ of counter-
revolutionary camouflage. The Soviets, it is true, 
are now merely organs for uniting the masses, but we 
are always with the masses, and we shall not leave the 
Soviets unless we are driven out. Do we not remain 
in the factory committees and the municipalities even 
though they have no power? But while we remain in 
the Soviets we continue to expose the tactics of the 
Socialist-Revolutionaries and Mensheviks.

SPEECHES AT THE SIXTH CONGRESS OF THE R.S.D.L.P.(B.) 199 
Now that the counter-revolution has patently revealed 
the connection between our bourgeoisie and Allied capital, 
it has become more obvious than ever that in our 
revolutionary struggle we must rely upon three factors: 
the Russian proletariat, our peasantry, and the international 
proletariatófor the fate of our revolution is 
closely bound up with the West-European movement. 
6. REPLY TO PREOBRAZHENSKY 
ON CLAUSE 9 OF THE RESOLUTION 
ìON THE POLITICAL SITUATIONî 
August 3 
Stalin reads clause 9 of the resolution: 
9. ìThe task of these revolutionary classes will then 
be to bend every effort to take the state power into 
their hands and, in alliance with the revolutionary 
proletariat of the advanced countries, direct it towards 
peace and towards the socialist reconstruction of society.î 
Preobrazhensky: I propose a different formulation of the end 
of the resolution: ìto direct it towards peace and, in the event 
of a proletarian revolution in the West, towards socialism.î If we 
adopt the formulation proposed by the commission it will contradict 
Bukharinís resolution which we have already adopted. 
Stalin: I am against such an amendment. The possibility 
is not excluded that Russia will be the country 
that will lay the road to socialism. No country hitherto 
has enjoyed such freedom in time of war as Russia does, 
or has attempted to introduce workersí control of production. 
Moreover, the base of our revolution is broader

J. V. S T A L I N 200 
than in Western Europe, where the proletariat stands utterly 
alone face to face with the bourgeoisie. In our country 
the workers are supported by the poorer strata of the 
peasantry. Lastly, in Germany the state apparatus is 
incomparably more efficient than the imperfect apparatus 
of our bourgeoisie, which is itself a tributary to 
European capital. We must discard the antiquated idea 
that only Europe can show us the way. There is dogmatic 
Marxism and creative Marxism. I stand by the latter. 
Chairman: I shall put Preobrazhenskyís amendment to the 
vote. Rejected.* 
First published in 
Minutes of the Sixth Congress 
of the R.S.D.L.P. (Bolsheviks), 
Communist Publishing House, 1919 
* In view of the brevity and obvious inadequacy of the Minutes 
of the Sixth Congress of the R.S.D.L.P.(B.), which, moreover, 
were published two years after the congress, the editors considered 
it necessary in re-establishing the text of Comrade Stalinís 
speeches at the Sixth Congress to consult, in addition to the Minutes, 
the official records of the speeches printed in July and August 
1917 in the newspapers: Rabochy i Soldat, Nos. 7 and 14, and 
Proletary, No. 3.

WHAT DO THE CAPITALISTS WANT? 
The Second All-Russian Congress of Merchants and 
Manufacturers opened in Moscow the other day. It was 
inaugurated with a programmatic speech by the leader 
of the nationalists, Ryabushinsky the millionaire. 
What did Ryabushinsky say? 
What is the capitalistsí program? 
The workers need to know, especially now that the 
capitalists command the government, and the Mensheviks 
and Socialist-Revolutionaries are flirting with them 
as ìvirile forces.î 
For the capitalists are the sworn enemies of the workers, 
and in order to vanquish our enemies we must 
first know who they are. 
What, then, do the capitalists want? 
* 
* 
* 
Who Wields the Power? 
The capitalists are not empty chatterers. They are 
men of action. They know that the fundamental issue 
of revolution and counter-revolution is the question of 
power. It is not surprising, therefore, that Ryabushinsky 
began his speech with this fundamental question.

J. V. S T A L I N 202 
ìOur Provisional Government,î he said, ìwhich represented 
only a semblance of power, was under the pressure of outsiders. 
Actually a gang of political charlatans had enthroned themselves 
in power. The Soviet pseudo-leaders of the people were leading 
them to disaster, and the whole realm of Russia was on the brink 
of a yawning abyssî (Rech). 
That ìactually a gang of political charlatans had 
enthroned themselves in powerî is, of course, true. 
But it is no less true that these ìcharlatansî must be 
sought for not among the ìSoviet leaders,î but among 
the Ryabushinskys themselves, among those friends 
of Ryabushinsky who on July 2 resigned from the Provisional 
Government, bargained for weeks over Ministerial 
portfolios, blackmailed the Socialist-Revolutionary 
and Menshevik simpletons by threatening to deprive the 
government of credits, and finally achieved their object 
and compelled them to dance to their tune. 
For it is these ìcharlatans,î and not the ìSoviet 
leaders,î who dictated to the government the arrests 
and raids, the shootings and the death penalty. 
It is these ìcharlatansî who are ìexerting pressureî 
on the government and transforming it into a shield to 
protect them from the wrath of the people. 
It is these ìcharlatans,î and not the ìSoviet leaders,î 
devoid of power, who ìactually have enthroned themselves 
in powerî in Russia. 
But that, of course, is not the point at issue. The 
point at issue is that the Soviets, before which only 
yesterday the capitalists were cringing, and which are 
now defeated, still retain a fragment of power, and now 
the capitalists want to deprive them of this last shred 
in order the more securely to establish their own power.

WHAT DO THE CAPITALISTS WANT? 203 
That is what Mr. Ryabushinsky has in mind first 
of all. 
Do you want to know what the capitalists want? 
All power to the capitalistsóthat is what they want. 
* 
* 
* 
Who Is Bringing Disaster on Russia? 
Ryabushinsky spoke not only of the present. He is 
not averse to ìcasting a glance back on the preceding 
months.î And what does he find? ìSumming up the 
situation,î he discovers, among other things, that ìwe 
have reached a sort of impasse from which we cannot 
extricate ourselves. . . . The food problem has become 
utterly unmanageable, Russiaís economic and financial 
affairs are thoroughly dislocated, etc.î 
And those responsible for this, it appears, are these 
same ìcomradesî of the Soviets, these ìsquanderersî 
who ought to be ìput under guardianship.î 
ìThe land of Russia will groan in their comradely embrace 
so long as the people do not see through them; and when they 
do see through them they will say: ëYou are deceivers of the 
people!íî 
That Russia has been driven into an impasse, that 
she is in a state of profound crisis, that she is on the 
brink of disaster, is, of course, true. 
But is it not strange: 
1) That whereas before the war there was a superfluity 
of grain in Russia and every year we exported

J. V. S T A L I N 204 
400-500 million poods, now, during the war, there 
is a shortage of grain and we are compelled to starve? 
2) That whereas before the war Russiaís national 
debt amounted to 9,000 million rubles, and to pay the 
interest on it only 400 million rubles were required 
annually, during the three years of the war the national 
debt has risen to 60,000 million rubles, requiring 
3,000 million rubles annually for the payment of interest 
alone? 
Is it not clear that Russia has been driven into an 
impasse by the war, and only by the war? 
But who impelled Russia into the war, and who is 
impelling her to continue the war, if not these selfsame 
Ryabushinskys and Konovalovs, Milyukovs and 
Vinavers? 
There are ìsquanderersî in plenty in Russia, and 
they are bringing disaster upon heróof that there can 
be no doubt. But they must be sought for not among 
the ìcomrades,î but among the Ryabushinskys and 
Konovalovs, the capitalists and bankers, who are 
making millions out of war contracts and government 
loans. 
And when, some day, the Russian people see through 
them, they will make short work of themóof that they 
may rest assured. 
But that, of course, is not the point at issue. The 
point at issue is that the capitalists are thirsting for 
their profitable ìwar to a finish,î but are afraid to 
answer for its consequences, and so they are trying to 
throw the blame on the ìcomrades,î in order to be able 
the more easily to drown the revolution in the welter 
of war.

WHAT DO THE CAPITALISTS WANT? 205 
That is what Mr. Ryabushinskyís speech hinted at. 
Do you want to know what the capitalists want? 
War until complete victory over the revolutionóthat 
is what they want. 
* 
* 
* 
Who Is Betraying Russia? 
After describing the critical state of Russia, Ryabushinsky 
proposed a ìway out of the situation.î And 
listen to the ìway outî he proposes: 
ìThe government has not given the people bread, or coal, 
or textiles. . . . Perhaps to find a way out of the situation we 
shall need the gaunt hand of famine, the destitution of the people, 
which would seize by the throat the false friends of the peopleó 
the democratic Soviets and Committees.î 
Do you hear that? ìWe shall need the gaunt hand of 
famine, the destitution of the people.î. . . 
The Ryabushinskys, it appears, are not averse to 
bestowing ìfamineî and ìdestitutionî upon Russia in 
order to ìseize by the throatî the ìdemocratic Soviets 
and Committees.î 
They are not averse, it appears, to closing down 
mills and factories or creating unemployment and starvation, 
in order to provoke the people to give premature 
battle and the more thoroughly to settle accounts with 
the workers and peasants. 
There you have them, these ìvirile forcesî of the 
country, on the testimony of Rabochaya Gazeta and 
Delo Naroda! 
There you have them, the real traitors and betrayers 
of Russia!

J. V. S T A L I N 206 
Many are talking about treachery in Russia today. 
Former gendarmes and present secret service agents, 
incompetent hirelings and dissolute souteneurs are all 
writing about treachery, hinting at the ìdemocratic 
Soviets and Committees.î Let the workers know that the 
lying talk about treachery is only a camouflage to 
conceal the real betrayers of much-suffering Russia! 
Do you want to know what the capitalists want? 
The triumph of the interests of their purses, even if it 
means the doom of Russiaóthat is what they want. 
Rabochy i Soldat, No. 13, 
August 6, 1917 
Editorial

AGAINST THE MOSCOW CONFERENCE61 
The counter-revolution is entering a new phase of 
development. From wrecking and destruction it is passing 
to the consolidation of the positions it has won. 
>From riots and disorders it is passing into the ìlegal 
channelî of ìconstitutional development.î 
The revolution can and must be defeated, say the 
counter-revolutionaries. But that is not enough. Approval 
must be obtained for this. And it must be so arranged 
that this approval is given by the ìpeopleî 
themselves, by the ìnation,î and not only in Petrograd 
or at the front, but all over Russia. Then the 
victory will be a firm one. Then the gains achieved 
may serve as a basis for future victories of the counterrevolution. 
But how is this to be done? 
One might speed the convocation of the Constituent 
Assembly, the sole representative of the entire Russian 
people, and ask its approval for the policy of war and 
ruin, of wrecking and arrests, of manhandling and 
shootings. 
But to this the bourgeoisie will not agree. It knows 
that from the Constituent Assembly, in which the 
peasants would be in the majority, it would secure

J. V. S T A L I N 208 
neither recognition nor approval of a counter-revolutionary 
policy. 
That is why it is striving to secure (has already 
secured!) the postponement of the Constituent Assembly. 
And it will probably continue to postpone it in order 
finally to kill it altogether. 
What, then, is the ìway outî? 
The ìway outî lies in substituting for the Constituent 
Assembly a ìMoscow Conference.î 
The ìway outî lies in substituting for the will of 
the people the will of the upper strata of the bourgeois 
and landlords, by substituting for the Constituent Assembly 
a ìMoscow Conference.î 
Convening a conference of merchants and manufacturers, 
of landlords and bankers, of members of the 
tsarist Duma and the already tamed Mensheviks and 
Socialist-Revolutionaries, in order to proclaim such a 
conference a ìNational Assemblyî and obtain its approval 
of the policy of imperialism and counter-revolution, 
and of laying the burden of the war on the shoulders 
of the workers and peasantsóthat is the ìway outî 
for the counter-revolution. 
The counter-revolution needs a parliament of its own, 
a centre of its own, and it is creating it. 
The counter-revolution needs the confidence of the 
ìpublic,î and it is creating it. 
That is the crux of the matter. 
In this respect the counter-revolution is following the 
same course as the revolution. It is learning from the 
revolution. 
The revolution had its parliament, its real centre, 
and it felt that it was organized.

AGAINST THE MOSCOW CONFERENCE 209 
Now the counter-revolution is striving to create 
its own parliament, and it is creating it in the very 
heart of Russia, in Moscow, by the handóoh, the 
irony of fate!óof the Socialist-Revolutionaries and 
Mensheviks. 
And this at a time when the parliament of the 
revolution has been degraded to a mere adjunct of 
the imperialist bourgeois counter-revolution, when war 
to the death has been declared upon the Soviets 
and Committees of the workers, peasants and soldiers! 
It is not difficult to understand that under these 
circumstances the conference to be convened in Moscow 
on August 12 will inevitably be transformed into an 
organ of counter-revolutionary conspiracy against the 
workers, who are being threatened with lockouts and 
unemployment, against the peasants, who are ìnot 
being givenî land, and against the soldiers, who are 
being deprived of the liberties they won in the days 
of the revolutionóinto an organ of conspiracy camouflaged 
by the ìsocialist talkî of the Socialist-Revolutionaries 
and Mensheviks, who are supporting the conference. 
It is consequently the task of the advanced workers: 
1) To tear the mask of an organ of popular representation 
from the face of the conference, to drag its counter-
revolutionary, anti-popular nature into the light 
of day. 
2) To expose the Mensheviks and Socialist-Revolutionaries, 
who are using the ìsalvation of the revolutionî 
flag to mask the conference and are misleading 
the people of Russia.

J. V. S T A L I N 210 
3) To organize mass protest meetings against these 
counter-revolutionary machinations of the ìsavioursîó 
the saviours of the profits of the landlords and capitalists. 
Let the enemies of the revolution know that the 
workers will not allow themselves to be deceived, that 
they will not allow the battle-standard of revolution 
to slip from their hands. 
Rabochy i Soldat, No. 14, 
August 8, 1917 
Editorial

MORE ON THE SUBJECT OF STOCKHOLM62 
The war goes on. Its bloodstained chariot is advancing 
grimly and inexorably. From a European war it 
is turning step by step into a world war, enmeshing 
more and more countries in its evil toils. 
And with it the significance of the Stockholm Conference 
is declining and diminishing. 
The ìfight for peaceî and the tactics of ìbringing 
pressure to bearî upon the imperialist governments proclaimed 
by the conciliators have turned out to be but 
an ìempty sound.î 
The attempts of the conciliators to speed the termination 
of the war and to restore the workersí International 
by means of an agreement between the ìdefencist 
majoritiesî in the various countries have ended 
in utter fiasco. 
The Stockholm scheme of the Mensheviks and Socialist-
Revolutionaries, around which a close web of 
imperialist intrigue is being woven, is bound to become 
either a futile parade or a pawn in the hands of the imperialist 
governments. 
It is now clear to all that the European tour of the 
delegates of the All-Russian Congress of Soviets63 and the 
ìsocialistî diplomacy of the defencists, with its official

J. V. S T A L I N 212 
luncheons for representatives of British and French social-
imperialism, are not the way to restore the international 
brotherhood of the workers. 
Our Party was right when already at the April Conference 
i t dissociated itself from the Stockholm Conference. 
The development of the war and the whole world 
situation are inevitably aggravating class antagonisms 
and ushering in an era of great social conflicts. 
In this, and in this alone, is the democratic way 
of ending the war to be sought. 
They talk about an ìevolutionî in the views of the 
British and French social-patriots, about their decision 
to go to Stockholm and so on. 
But does this really alter anything? Did not the 
Russian and the German and Austrian social-patriots also 
decide (and even before the British and French!) to participate 
in the Stockholm Conference? But who will assert 
that this decision of theirs has helped to hasten 
the ending of the war? 
Has Scheidemannís party, which has agreed to participate 
in the Stockholm Conference, ceased to support 
its government, which is waging an offensive and seizing 
Galicia and Rumania? 
Are not Renaudelís and Hendersonís parties, which 
talk so much about the ìfight for peaceî and about the 
Stockholm Conference, at the same time supporting 
their governments, which are seizing Mesopotamia and 
Greece? 
In the face of these facts, of what value can their 
talk in Stockholm be from the point of view of ending 
the war?

MORE ON THE SUBJECT OF STOCKHOLM 213 
Who does not know that pious talk of peace, as a 
camouflage for resolute support of a policy of war and 
conquest, is one of the old, old imperialist methods of 
deceiving the masses? 
It is said that circumstances have changed compared 
with what they used to be, and that accordingly we 
ought to change our attitude towards the Stockholm 
Conference. 
Yes, circumstances have changed, but they have 
changed not in favour but absolutely against the Stockholm 
Conference. 
The first change is that the European war has turned 
into a world war, and has extended and deepened the 
general crisis to an extreme degree. 
Consequently, the chances of an imperialist peace 
and of a policy of ìpressureî on the governments have 
declined to the very minimum. 
The second change is that Russia has taken the path 
of an offensive at the front and has adapted the internal 
life of the country to the requirements of the offensive 
policy by putting a curb on liberty. For, surely, it must 
be understood that that policy is incompatible with 
ìmaximum liberty,î that the turning point in the development 
of our revolution was already reached in June. 
And the Bolsheviks ìfind themselves sitting in jail,î 
while the defencists, having transformed themselves into 
offensivists, are playing the part of the jailers. 
Consequently, the position of the advocates of a 
ìfight for peaceî has become untenable, for whereas 
before it was possible to talk of peace without fearing 
to be exposed as a liar, now, after the adoption of the 
policy of the offensive with the support of the ìdefencists,î

J. V. S T A L I N 214 
talk of peace coming from the lips of ìdefencistsî sounds 
like mockery. 
What does all this show? 
It shows that ìcomradelyî talk about peace at Stockholm 
and bloody deeds at the front have proved to be 
absolutely incompatible, that the contradiction between 
them has become glaring, self-evident. 
And that makes the failure of the Stockholm Conference 
inevitable. 
In view of this, our attitude towards the Stockholm 
Conference had also changed somewhat. 
Before, we exposed the Stockholm scheme. Now it is 
hardly worth exposing, because it is exposing itself. 
Before, it had to be condemned as playing at peace, 
which was deceiving the masses. Now i t is hardly 
worth condemning, because one does not hit a man when 
he is down. 
But from this i t follows that the road to Stockholm 
is not the road to peace. 
The road to peace lies not through Stockholm but 
through the revolutionary struggle of the workers against 
imperialism. 
Rabochy i Soldat, No. 15, 
August 9, 1917 
Editorial

WHITHER THE MOSCOW CONFERENCE? 
Flight From Petrograd 
The Moscow Conference has opened. It has opened 
not in the centre of the revolution, not in Petrograd, 
but far away, in ìsomnolent Moscow.î 
In the days of the revolution important conferences 
were usually convened in Petrograd, the citadel of the 
revolution which had overthrown tsarism. They were not 
afraid of Petrograd then, they clung to it. But now the 
days of revolution have been superseded by the twilight 
of counter-revolution. Now Petrograd is dangerous, now 
they fear it like the plague and . . . flee from it like the 
devil from holy waterófar away, to Moscow, ìwhere it 
is quieter,î and where the counter-revolutionaries think 
it will be easier for them to do their dirty work. 
ìThe conference will take place under the flag of Moscow. 
Moscow ideas and Moscow sentiments are remote from putrid 
Petrogradóthat plague spot which is contaminating Russiaî 
(Vecherneye Vremya, August 11). 
So say the counter-revolutionaries. 
The ìdefencistsî fully agree with them. 
ìTo Moscow, to Moscow!î whisper the ìsaviours 
of the countryî as they flee from Petrograd. 
ìGood riddance,î revolutionary Petrograd replies. 
ìAnd a boycott on your conference!î the Petrograd 
workers hurl after them.

J. V. S T A L I N 216 
And what about Moscow? Will it justify the hopes 
of the counter-revolutionaries? 
It does not look like it. The newspapers are full of 
reports of a general strike in Moscow. The strike has 
been declared by the Moscow workers. They, like the 
Petrograd workers, are boycotting the conference. Moscow 
is not lagging behind Petrograd. 
Long live the Moscow workers! 
Whatís to be done? Flee again? 
>From Petrograd to Moscow, and from Moscowó 
whither? 
To Tsarevokokshaisk, perhaps? 
Things look black, very black for Messieurs the Versaillese. 
. . . 
* 
* 
* 
>From the Conference to a ìLong Parliamentî64 
When they were arranging the Moscow Conference 
Messieurs the ìsavioursî pretended they were convening 
an ìordinary conference,î which would decide 
nothing and commit nobody to anything. But little by 
little the ìordinary conferenceî became transformed 
into a ìConference of State,î and then into a ìGrand 
Assembly,î and now there is definite talk about converting 
it into a ìLong Parliamentî which would decide 
the cardinal questions of our life. 
ìIf the Moscow Conference,î says Karaulov, the Ataman of 
the Terek Cossack troops, ìdoes not crystallize into a centre for 
uniting the country, Russiaís future will be sombre. I think 
however, that such a centre will be established . . . and if . . . 
such a support point eventuates, the Moscow Conference will not 
only prove a virile body, but will have every chance of a pro

WHITHER THE MOSCOW CONFERENCE? 217 
longed and colourful existence, like that of the ëLong Parliamentí 
in the time of Cromwell. I, for my part, as a representative of the 
Cossacks, will do all I can to assist the formation of such a uniting 
centreî (Russkiye Vedomosti, evening edition, August 11). 
So says a ìrepresentative of the Cossacks.î 
The Moscow Conference as a ìcentre for unitingî 
the counter-revolutionósuch is the brief import of Karaulovís 
lengthy speech. 
The same thing was said by the Don Cossacks in 
their instructions to their representatives: 
ìThe government must be organized by the Moscow Conference 
or by the Provisional Committee of the State Duma and 
not by some party, as has been the case up to now. And that 
government must be vested with the fullest authority and be 
allowed complete independence.î 
So says the Don Cossack assembly. 
And who does not know now that ìthe Cossacks are 
a forceî? 
There can be no room for doubtóeither the conference 
is abortive, or it will inevitably be transformed into 
a ìLong Parliamentî of the counter-revolution. 
Whether they wanted it or not, the Mensheviks and 
Socialist-Revolutionaries have by convening the conference 
facilitated the work of organizing counter-revolution. 
Such is the fact. 
* 
* 
* 
Who Are They? 
Who are they, the big chiefs of counter-revolution? 
First of all the military, the higher army officers, 
who have the following of certain sections of the Cossacks 
and of the Knights of St. George.

J. V. S T A L I N 218 
Secondly, our industrial bourgeoisie, headed by 
Ryabushinsky, the man who is threatening the people 
with ìfamineî and ìdestitutionî if they do not desist 
from their demands. 
Lastly, Milyukovís party, which unites the generals 
and industrialists against the Russian people, 
against the revolution. 
All that was made sufficiently clear at the ìPreliminary 
Conferenceî65 of generals, industrialists and Cadets 
held from August 8 to 10. 
ìThe name of General Kornilov is on everyoneís lips,î writes 
Birzhovka. ìThe representatives of what is called the military 
party, headed by General Alexeyev, and the delegates of the Cossack 
League are the predominant influence at the conference. The speech 
General Alexeyev delivered at the first sitting, which was greeted 
with stormy expressions of approval, will be repeated at the Moscow 
Conference of Stateî (Vechernaya Birzhovka, August 11). 
That was the speech which Milyukov proposed should 
be published as a leaflet. 
Further: 
ìGeneral Kaledin is attracting considerable attention. He 
is looked to and listened to with particular interest. The entire 
military section is grouping around himî (Vecherneye Vremya, 
August 11). 
Lastly, everybody knows about the ultimatums of 
the Knights of St. George and the Cossack Leagues, 
headed by these same generals, whether deposed or still 
undeposed. 
And the ultimatums are carried out forthwith. Military 
men are not fond of ìidle chatter.î 
There is no room for doubt: matters are moving 
towards the establishment and legalization of a military 
dictatorship.

WHITHER THE MOSCOW CONFERENCE? 219 
Our native and the Allied bourgeoisie will ìmerelyî 
provide the money. 
It is not for nothing that ìSir George Buchanan is 
showing interest in the conferenceî (see Birzhovka), and 
it seems that he, too, is preparing to go to Moscow. 
It is not for nothing that Mr. Milyukovís ruffians 
are jubilant. 
I t is not for nothing that Ryabushinsky regards 
himself as a Minin, a ìsaviour,î etc. 
* 
* 
* 
What Do They Want? 
They want the complete triumph of the counterrevolution. 
Listen to the resolution adopted by the 
preliminary conference. 
ìLet discipline be restored in the army, and power 
will pass to the officers.î 
In other words: Curb the soldiers! 
ìLet a united and strong central government put 
an end to the system of irresponsible rule of collegiate 
institutions.î 
In other words: Down with the Workersí and Peasantsí 
Soviets! 
Let the government ìresolutely do away with all 
traces of dependence upon any committees, Soviets and 
similar organizations whatsoever.î 
In other words: Let the government depend only 
upon Cossack ìSovietsî and Knights of St. George ìconferrers.î 
The resolution asserts that only in this way can 
ìRussia be saved.î

J. V. S T A L I N 220 
Clear, it would seem. 
Well, Messieurs the compromising Socialist-Revolutionaries 
and Mensheviks, are you willing to arrange 
a compromise with the representatives of the ìvirile 
forcesî? 
Or perhaps you have thought better of it? 
Unhappy compromisers. . . . 
* 
* 
* 
The Voice of Moscow 
But Moscow is doing its revolutionary work. The 
newspapers report that in response to an appeal of the 
Bolsheviks a general strike has already begun in Moscow 
in spite of the decision of the All-Russian Executive 
Committee, which is still trailing in the wake of the 
enemies of the people. 
Shame on the Executive Committee! 
Long live the revolutionary proletariat of Moscow! 
Let the voice of our Moscow comrades ring out loudly, 
to the joy of the oppressed and enslaved! 
Let the whole of Russia know that there are still 
people who are prepared to give their lives in defence 
of the revolution. 
Moscow is on strike. Long live Moscow! 
Proletary, No. 1, 
August 13, 1917 
Editorial

COUNTER-REVOLUTION 
AND THE PEOPLES OF RUSSIA 
At the time of the revolution and democratic change 
the keynote of the movement was emancipation. 
The peasants were emancipating themselves from 
the omnipotence of the landlords. The workers were 
emancipating themselves from the caprice of the factory 
managements. The soldiers were emancipating themselves 
from the tyranny of the generals. . . . 
The process of emancipation could not but extend 
to the peoples of Russia who for ages had been oppressed 
by tsarism. 
The decree on the ìequalityî of the peoples and the 
actual abolition of national disabilities, the congresses 
of Ukrainians, Finns and Byelorussians and the raising 
of the question of a federal republic, the solemn proclamation 
of the right of nations to self-determination 
and the official promises ìnot to create obstaclesî 
all these were evidences of the great movement for emancipation 
of the peoples of Russia. 
That was in the days of the revolution, when the 
landlords had departed from the scene and the imperial

J. V. S T A L I N 222 
ist bourgeoisie was forced to the wall by the onslaught 
of the democracy. 
With the return to power of the landlords (generals!) 
and the triumph of the counter-revolutionary bourgeoisie, 
the picture has completely changed. 
The ìgrand wordsî about self-determination and the 
solemn promises ìnot to create obstaclesî are being consigned 
to oblivion. Obstacles of the most incredible 
kind are being created, even to the extent of direct interference 
in the internal affairs of the peoples. The Finnish 
Diet66 has been dissolved, with the threat of ìdeclaring 
martial law in Finland, should the need ariseî 
(Vecherneye Vremya, August 9). A campaign is being 
launched against the Ukrainian Rada and Secretariat,67 
with the manifest intention of beheading the autonomy 
of the Ukraine. Together with this we have 
a recrudescence of the old, contemptible methods of 
provoking national clashes and criminal suspicions of 
ìtreason,î with the object of unleashing the counterrevolutionary 
chauvinistic forces, drowning in blood 
the very idea of national emancipation, digging gulfs 
between the peoples of Russia and sowing enmity 
among them, to the glee of the enemies of the revolution. 
Thereby a mortal blow is being struck at the cause 
of welding these peoples into a united and brotherly 
family. 
For i t is self-evident that the policy of national 
ìpinpricksî does not unite, but divides the peoples by 
fostering ìseparatistî tendencies among them. 
It is self-evident that the policy of national oppression 
pursued by the counter-revolutionary bourgeoisie

COUNTER-REVOLUTION AND THE PEOPLES OF RUSSIA 223 
holds out the menace of that very ìdisintegrationî of 
Russia against which the bourgeois press is so falsely 
and hypocritically howling. 
It is self-evident that the policy of inciting the 
nationalities against one another is that same contemptible 
policy which, by fomenting mutual distrust and 
enmity among the peoples, splits the forces of the all- 
Russian proletariat and undermines the very foundations 
of the revolution. 
That is why all our sympathies are with the subject 
and oppressed peoples in their natural struggle against 
this policy. 
That is why we turn our weapons against those who, 
under the guise of the right of nations to ìself-determination,î 
are pursuing a policy of imperialist annexations 
and forcible ìunion.î 
We are by no means opposed to uniting nations 
to form a single integral state. We are by no means 
in favour of the division of big states into small states. 
For it is self-evident that the union of small states into 
big states is one of the conditions facilitating the establishment 
of socialism. 
But we absolutely insist that union must be voluntary, 
for only such union is genuine and lasting. 
But that requires, in the first place, full and unqualified 
recognition of the right of the peoples of Russia 
to self-determination, including the right to secede 
from Russia. 
I t requires, further, that this verbal recognition 
should be backed by deeds, that the peoples should be 
permitted right away to determine their territories and

J. V. S T A L I N 224 
the forms of their political structure in their constituent 
assemblies. 
Only such a policy can promote confidence and friendship 
among the peoples. 
Only such a policy can pave the way to a genuine 
union of the peoples. 
Without a doubt, the peoples of Russia are not infallible 
and may well commit errors when arranging their 
lives. It is the duty of the Russian Marxists to point 
out these errors to them, and to their proletarians in 
the first place, and to endeavour to secure correction 
of the errors by criticism and persuasion. But nobody 
has the right forcibly to interfere in the internal life of 
nations and to ìcorrectî their errors by force. Nations 
are sovereign in their internal affairs and have the right 
to arrange their lives as they wish. 
Such are the fundamental demands of the peoples of 
Russia proclaimed by the revolution and now trampled 
upon by the counter-revolution. 
These demands cannot be realized so long as the 
counter-revolutionaries are in power. 
Victory of the revolution is the only way of emancipating 
the peoples of Russia from national oppression. 
There can be only one conclusion, namely, that the 
problem of emancipation from national oppression is a 
problem of power. National oppression is rooted in 
the rule of the landlords and the imperialist bourgeoisie. 
The way to secure the complete emancipation of the 
peoples of Russia from national oppression is to transfer 
power to the proletariat and the revolutionary peasants.

COUNTER-REVOLUTION AND THE PEOPLES OF RUSSIA 225 
Either the peoples of Russia support the workersí 
revolutionary struggle for power, and then they will 
secure their emancipation; or they do not support it, and 
then they will no more see their emancipation than the 
back of their heads. 
Proletary, No. 1, 
August 13, 1917 
Unsigned

TWO COURSES 
The fundamental issue in the present situation is the 
war. The economic disruption and the food problem, 
the question of the land and political liberty are all 
component parts of the one general problem of the war. 
What is the cause of the disruption of the food 
supply? 
The prolonged war, which has disorganized transport 
and left the towns without bread. 
What is the cause of the financial and economic 
disruption? 
The unending war, which is draining Russiaís energies 
and resources. 
What is the cause of the repressive measures at the 
front and in the rear? 
The war and the policy of the offensive, which demands 
ìiron discipline.î 
What is the cause of the triumph of the bourgeois 
counter-revolution? 
The whole course of the war, which demands ever 
new thousands of millions, while our native bourgeoisie, 
supported by the Allied bourgeoisie, refuses to grant 
credits unless the principal gains of the revolution are 
annulled.

TWO COURSES 227 
And so on, and so forth 
In view of this, the way to settle all the various 
ìcrisesî which are now strangling the country is to settle 
the question of the war. 
But how is this to be done? 
Two courses lie before Russia. 
Either continuation of the war and a further ìoffensiveî 
at the front, in which case power must inevitably 
be transferred to the counter-revolutionary bourgeoisie, 
in order that money may be obtained by internal 
and foreign loans. 
ìSavingî the country in that case would mean defraying 
the cost of the war at the expense of the workers 
and peasants (indirect taxes!) to suit the Russian and 
Allied imperialist sharks. 
Or transfer of power to the workers and peasants, declaration 
of democratic terms of peace and cessation of 
the war, in order to advance the revolution further 
by transferring the land to the peasants, establishing 
workersí control over industry and restoring the collapsing 
national economy at the expense of the profits 
of the capitalists and landlords. 
Saving the country in this case would mean delivering 
the workers and peasants from the financial 
burden of the war at the expense of the imperialist 
sharks. 
The first course would lead to the dictatorship of 
the landlords and capitalists over the toilers, to the imposition 
of crushing taxation on the country, to the gradual 
bartering away of Russia to foreign capitalists 
(concessions!), and to the conversion of Russia into 
a colony of Britain, America and France.

J. V. S T A L I N 228 
The second course would usher in an era of workersí 
revolutions in the West, snap the financial ties that 
bind Russia, shake the very foundations of bourgeois 
rule and pave the way for the real emancipation of 
Russia. 
These are the two courses. They reflect the interests 
of two opposite classesóthe imperialist bourgeoisie and 
the socialist proletariat. 
There is no third course. 
To reconcile these two courses is as impossible as 
it is to reconcile imperialism and socialism. 
The course of compromise (coalition) with the bourgeoisie 
is doomed to inevitable failure. 
ìCoalition on the basis of a democratic platformó 
such is the solution,î write the defencist gentry in connection 
with the Moscow Conference (Izvestia68) 
Not true, Messieurs the compromisers! 
Three times have you arranged coalitions with the 
bourgeoisie, and each time you have landed in a new 
crisis of power.î 
Why? 
Because coalition with the bourgeoisie is a false 
course, one that would cover up the evils of the present 
situation. 
Because coalition is either an empty word, or else 
a means by which the imperialist bourgeoisie can strengthen 
its power with the helping hand of the ìSocialists.î 
Did not the present coalition government, which 
tried to seat itself between the two camps, eventually 
go over to the side of imperialism? 
Why has the ìMoscow Conferenceî been convened, 
if not to consolidate the position of the counter-revolu

TWO COURSES 229 
tionaries and receive sanction (and credits!) for this 
step from the ìmen of the landî? 
What does Kerenskyís speech at the ìconferenceî 
appealing for ìsacrificeî and ìclass self-denialî in the 
interests, of course, of the ìcountryî and the ìwarî 
amount to, if not to an appeal for the consolidation of 
imperialism? 
And what about Prokopovichís statement that the 
government ìwill not tolerate interference of the workers 
(workersí control!) in the management of the factoriesî? 
What about the statement by the same Minister that 
ìthe government will not introduce any radical reforms 
in the sphere of the land questionî? 
What about Nekrasovís statement that ìthe government 
will not consent to confiscation of private propertyî? 
What is all this, if not directly serving the cause of 
the imperialist bourgeoisie? 
Is it not obvious that coalition is only a mask 
suitable and profitable to the Milyukovs and Ryabushinskys? 
Is it not obvious that the policy of compromise and 
manoeuvring between the classes is a policy of deceiving 
and fooling the masses? 
No, Messieurs the compromisers, the time has come 
when there can be no place for vacillation and compromise. 
There is already definite talk in Moscow of a counter-
revolutionary ìconspiracy.î The bourgeois press is 
resorting to the tried and tested method of intimidation 
by spreading rumours about the ìsurrender of Riga.î69 
At such a moment you have to choose:

J. V. S T A L I N 230 
Either with the proletariat, or against it. 
By boycotting the ìconference,î the Petrograd and 
Moscow proletarians are urging the course that will 
really save the revolution. 
Heed their voice, or get out of the way! 
Proletary, No. 2, 
August 15, 1917 
Editorial

OUTCOME OF THE MOSCOW CONFERENCE 
The Moscow Conference is over. 
Now, after the ìsharp clash between the two opposite 
camps,î after the ìbloody battleî between the 
Milyukovs and Tseretelis, now that the ìengagementî 
has ended and the wounded have been gathered up, it 
is permissible to ask: How did the ìbattleî of Moscow 
end? Who won and who lost? 
The Cadets are rubbing their hands with satisfaction. 
ìThe Party of Popular Freedom,î they say, ìcan pride 
itself on the fact that its slogans . . . have been recognized 
. . . as the national slogansî (Rech). 
The defencists are also pleased, for they talk of ìthe 
triumph of the democracyî (read: the defencists!), and 
assert that ìthe democracy emerges from the Moscow 
Conference strengthenedî (Izvestia). 
ìBolshevism must be destroyed,î said Milyukov 
at the conference amid the loud applause of the representatives 
of the ìvirile forces.î 
That is what we are doing, replied Tsereteli, for 
ìwe have already passed an emergency lawî against 
Bolshevism. Moreover, ìthe revolution (read: counterrevolution!) 
is not yet experienced in the struggle against 
the Left danger.î Give us time to acquire experience. 
And the Cadets agree that it is better to destroy Bolshevism 
gradually than at one stroke, and not directly,

J. V. S T A L I N 232 
not by their own hand, but by the hand of others, the 
hand of these same ìsocialistî defencists. 
ìThe Committees and Soviets must be abolished,î 
said General Kaledin amid the applause of the representatives 
of the ìvirile forces.î 
True, replied Tsereteli, but it is too early yet, for 
ìthis scaffolding must not be removed before the edifice 
of the free revolution (read: counter-revolution!) is completed.î 
Give us time to ìcompleteî it, and the Soviets 
and Committees will be removed. 
And the Cadets agree that it is better to degrade the 
Committees and Soviets to the role of simple adjuncts 
of the imperialist machine than to destroy them out 
of hand. 
The result is ìuniversal jubilationî and ìsatisfaction.î 
It is not for nothing that the newspapers say that 
there is now ìgreater unity between the socialist Ministers 
and Cadet Ministers than before the conferenceî 
(Novaya Zhizn). 
Who has won, you ask? 
The capitalists have won, for at the conference the 
government pledged itself ìnot to tolerate interference 
of the workers (control!) in the management of the 
factories.î 
The landlords have won, for at the conference the 
government pledged itself ìnot to introduce any radical 
reforms in the sphere of the land question.î 
The counter-revolutionary generals have won, for 
the Moscow Conference approved the death penalty. 
Who has won, you ask? 
The counter-revolution has won, for it has organized

FROM MARX 
TO MAO 
 
NOT FOR 
COMMERCIAL 
DISTRIBUTION 
233 
itself on a country-wide scale and rallied the support of 
all the ìvirile forcesî of the country, such as Ryabushinsky 
and Milyukov, Tsereteli and Dan, Alexeyev and 
Kaledin. 
The counter-revolution has won, for the so-called 
ìrevolutionary democracyî has been placed at its disposal 
as a convenient shield against the anger of the people. 
The counter-revolutionaries are now not alone. The 
whole ìrevolutionary democracyî is working for them. 
Now they have at their disposal the ìpublic opinionî 
of the ìland of Russia,î which the defencist gentry will 
ìassiduouslyî mould. 
Coronation of counter-revolutionóthat is the outcome 
of the Moscow Conference. 
The defencists, who are now prating about the ìtriumph 
of the democracy,î do not even suspect that they 
have simply been hired as flunkeys of the triumphant 
counter-revolutionaries. 
That, and that alone, is the political implication of 
the ìhonest coalitionî which Mr. Tsereteli urged ìimploringlyî 
and to which Milyukov and his friends have 
no objection. 
A ìcoalitionî of the defencists and the ìvirile 
forcesî of the imperialist bourgeoisie against the revolutionary 
proletariat and the poor peasantsóthat is the 
upshot of the Moscow Conference. 
Whether this counter-revolutionary ìcoalitionî will 
suffice the defencists for long, the near future will show. 
Proletary, No. 4, 
August 17, 1917 
Editorial 
TWO COURSES

THE TRUTH ABOUT OUR DEFEAT 
AT THE FRONT 
We print below excerpts from two articles of a documentary 
nature on the causes of the July defeat of our 
armies at the front. 
Both articles, the one by Arseny Merich (in Delo 
Naroda) and the other by V. Borisov (in Novoye Vremya70), 
attempt an impartial study of the July defeat, discounting 
the cheap accusations levelled by despicable people 
against the Bolsheviks. 
The more valuable, therefore, are their admissions and 
statements. 
A. Merich deals mainly with those responsible for 
the defeat. The culprits, it appears, are ìformer policemen 
and gendarmes,î and, above all, ìcertain automobiles,î 
of unspecified ownership, which toured the army 
defending Tarnopol and Czernowitz and ordered the soldiers 
to retreat. What these automobiles were, and how 
the commanders could have permitted this manifest 
hoax, the author, unfortunately, does not say. But he 
does say distinctly and definitely that it was a ìprovoked 
retreat,î that it was ìtreachery perpetrated in 
accordance with a deliberate and premeditated plan,î and 
that an inquiry is on foot and soon the ìsecret will come 
to light.î

THE TRUTH ABOUT OUR DEFEAT AT THE FRONT 235 
But what about the Bolsheviks? What about the 
ìBolshevik treacheryî? 
Of this there is not a line, not a word in A. Merichís 
article! 
Even more interesting is V. Borisovís article in 
Novoye Vremya. He deals not so much with the culprits 
as with the causes of the defeat. 
He bluntly declares that he ìacquits Bolshevism of 
the baseless charge of being responsible for our defeat,î 
that it was due not to Bolshevism, but to ìprofounder 
causes,î which need to be elucidated and eliminated. 
And what are these causes? First, the fact that offensive 
tactics are unsuitable for us because of the ìrawness 
of our generals,î the poor ìequipmentî of our armies, 
the unorganized state of the troops. Then, the interference 
of ìdilettanteî (inexperienced) elements, who insisted 
on an offensive and succeeded in June in getting their 
way. Finally, the overreadiness of the government to 
accept the advice of the Allies on the necessity of 
an offensive, without taking the actual situation at the 
front into consideration. 
In short, ìourî general unpreparedness for the offensive, 
which made it a costly gamble. 
In fact, all that the Bolsheviks and Pravda repeatedly 
warned against, and for which they were slandered by 
everyone who cared to, is corroborated. 
That is what is being said now by people who only 
yesterday were accusing us of being responsible for the 
defeat at the front. 
We are by no means inclined to rest content with 
the strategic and other revelations and arguments of 
Novoye Vremya, which now considers it necessary to

J. V. S T A L I N 236 
ìacquit the Bolsheviks of the baseless charge of being 
responsible for our defeat.î 
And we are just as little inclined to regard A. Merichís 
communications as exhaustive. 
But we cannot refrain from remarking that if the 
Ministerial Delo Naroda no longer finds it possible to 
keep silent about those who are really responsible for 
the defeat, if even (even!) Suvorinís Novoye Vremya, 
which only yesterday was accusing the Bolsheviks of 
being responsible for the defeat, now considers it necessary 
to ìacquit the Bolsheviksî of this charge, this 
only shows that murder will out, that the truth about 
the defeat is too glaring to be hushed up, that the truth 
about who is responsible for the defeat, now being dragged 
into the light by the soldiers themselves, is about to 
lash the faces of the accusers themselves, and that to 
keep silent any longer would be courting trouble. . . . 
Obviously, the accusation of being responsible for 
the defeat, concocted against the Bolsheviks by enemies 
of the revolution like the Novoye Vremya gentry and 
supported by ìfriendsî of the revolution like the Delo 
Naroda gentry, has been utterly discredited. 
That, and that alone, is the reason why these gentlemen 
have now decided to speak up and say who really 
is responsible for the defeat. 
Very much like the wise rats who are the first to 
leave a sinking ship, are they not? 
What conclusions are to be drawn from this? 
We are told that an inquiry is being made into the 
causes of the defeat at the front and we are assured that 
soon ìthe secret will come to light.î But what guarantee 
have we that the results of the inquiry will not be

THE TRUTH ABOUT OUR DEFEAT AT THE FRONT 237 
pigeonholed, that it will be conducted objectively, that 
the culprits will be punished as they deserve? 
Our first proposal therefore is: secure the appointment 
of representatives of the soldiers themselves to the 
commission of inquiry. 
This alone can really ensure the exposure of those 
responsible for the ìprovoked retreatî! 
That is the first conclusion. 
We are told about the causes of the defeat and are 
recommended not to repeat the old ìmistakes.î But what 
guarantee have we that the ìmistakesî were really mistakes 
and not a ìpremeditated planî? Who can vouch that, 
after the ìprovokedî surrender of Tarnopol, the surrender 
of Riga and Petrograd will not be ìprovokedî also, 
with the purpose of undermining the prestige of the 
revolution and re-erecting the old detested order on 
its ruins? 
Our second proposal therefore is: establish the control 
of representatives of the soldiers themselves over the 
actions of their officers and immediately dismiss all 
suspects. 
Only such control can ensure the revolution against 
criminal provocation on a large scale. 
That is the second conclusion. 
Proletary, No. 5, 
August 18, 1917 
Unsigned

THE CAUSES OF THE JULY DEFEAT 
AT THE FRONT 
Everyone remembers the malicious allegations and 
baseless charges levelled against the Bolsheviks of 
being responsible for the defeat at the front. The bourgeois 
press and Delo Naroda, the provocateurs of 
Birzhovka and Rabochaya Gazeta, the former tsarist 
flunkeys of Novoye Vremya, and Izvestia all joined in 
fulminating against the Bolsheviks, whom they blamed 
for the defeat. 
It now transpires that it is not among the Bolsheviks 
that the culprits are to be sought, but among those who 
sent out the ìmysterious automobilesî whose occupants 
called for retreat and sowed panic among the soldiers 
(see Delo Naroda, August 16). 
What ìautomobilesî they were, and what the commanders 
were doing who permitted these mysterious automobiles 
to run about loose, Delo Narodaís correspondent, 
unfortunately, does not say. 
It now transpires that it is not in Bolshevism that 
the reason for the defeat must be sought, but in ìprofounder 
causes,î in the fact that offensive tactics are 
unsuitable for us, in our unpreparedness for an offensive, 
in the ìrawness of our generalsî and so on (see 
Novoye Vremya, August 15).

THE CAUSES OF THE JULY DEFEAT AT THE FRONT 239 
Let the workers and soldiers read and re-read these 
issues of Delo Naroda and Novoye Vremya. Let them 
do so, and they will understand: 
1) How right the Bolsheviks were when they warned 
against an offensive at the front as far back as the end 
of May (see the Pravda issues); 
2) How criminal was the behaviour of the Menshevik 
and Socialist-Revolutionary leaders who agitated for 
an offensive and at the Congress of Soviets in the early 
part of June voted down the Bolshevik resolution 
against an offensive; 
3) That the responsibility for the July defeat rests 
primarily on the Milyukovs and Maklakovs, the Shulgins 
and Rodzyankos, who, in the name of the State 
Duma, were already ìdemandingî an ìimmediate offensiveî 
in the early part of June. 
Here are some excerpts from the articles mentioned: 
1) Excerpt from Arseny Merichís communication 
(Delo Naroda, August 16): 
ìWhy? Why did this disaster befall us, almost simultaneously 
on two sidesóat Tarnopol and Czernowitz? Why did the regiments 
there suddenly lose heart? What happened? What was the 
cause of this sudden change of mood? 
ìOfficers and soldiers readily give the answer. And their replies 
coincide almost verbally, each adding some vivid stroke 
to the ghastly picture. . . . 
ìThe men at the front consider that those chiefly responsible 
for the panic, for the stampede from the front lines, were the former 
policemen and gendarmes. 
ìWere they acting concertedly? 
ìëIt is hard to say,í replied an intelligent-looking ensign, 
formerly a peasant, member of the Socialist-Revolutionary Party 
and of the Executive Committee of the local Soviet of Workersí 
and Soldiersí Deputies. ëBut in every instance it was ascertained

J. V. S T A L I N 240 
that the panic was sown, that the absurd rumours about the proximity 
and strength of the enemy and about the expected release 
of poison gas within an hour or two were circulated only by 
former ìnarks.î . . . Many of us believe that the former policemen 
and gendarmes were not even deliberate traitors, but just 
ìrabbits,î cowards. But the elusive spies and provocateurs have 
a special instinct for finding loyal henchmen in men like that.í . . . 
ìHere is how intelligent and observant men describe the circumstances 
of our armyís shameful retreat. . . . 
ìCompanies are marching along a broad road . . . with short 
intervals between them. . . . 
ìSuddenly clouds of dust are seen. . . . There is a jam somewhere 
ahead, nobody knows why. . . . The companies halt, the 
men huddle together, exchange remarks. . . . Heads are stretched 
forward to see what is going on ahead, what is concealed in the 
approaching clouds of dust. . . . Then automobiles are seen, speeding 
full tilt and sounding their horns. They are now quite close, 
and shouts are heard: ëBack . . . back . . . the Austrians!í One 
cannot make out who is shouting, who is in the carsóthey rush a 
past so quickly. Sometimes one does catch a glimpse of a tunic, 
or epaulettes of some sort, but mostly one can distinguish nothing 
at all. . . . And then it starts. Nobody has any idea where the Austrians 
are, who is uttering the warning, but the stampede begins. 
. . . Before the men can recover their wits another car swishes 
by, and again the cry: ëThe Austrians! The Austrians! The positions 
have been surrendered. . . . Gas! Quick, quick, back, back!í 
ìIt was a panic, infecting everyone like a lightning epidemic. 
. . . Treachery perpetrated according to the book, with amazing 
astuteness, obviously in accordance with a deliberate and 
premeditated plan . . . We counted more than twenty of these 
cars without number plates. . . . Seven of them we detained, and 
of course we found that the occupants were strangers, totally unconnected 
with our regiments. . . . But about eighteen of them 
got away. The companies, stunned by the warning cries and by 
the recoiling of the companies ahead, turned and fled. . . . The 
Austrians entered a deserted town, deserted suburbs, and advanced 
deeper and deeper into our positions as if they were on a 
Sunday promenadeóthere was nobody to hinder them. . . .

THE CAUSES OF THE JULY DEFEAT AT THE FRONT 241 
ìThe other group is joined by soldier after soldier who had 
been at Tarnopol, two or three of them wearing university badges. 
And each supplements the picture of the provoked retreat with 
some new detail. The heroes of the retreat were rogues, spies, traitors. 
. . . Who are they? The near future will give the answer. But 
where are the others, who have not yet been caught or tracked down? 
Under what guise are they operating? What cries are they using to 
cover up their criminal activities? The men who witnessed the 
horrors of the Tarnopol retreat, the men at the front, believe that 
soon everything which until now has been secret will come to 
light, and that the revelation of this shameful secret will wipe 
the shameful stigma from the army that operated at Tarnopol, 
the victim of the most infamous treachery and deceit.î 
2) Excerpt from Borisovís article ìBolshevism and 
Our Defeatî (Novoye Vremya, August 15): 
ìWe want to acquit Bolshevism of the baseless charge 
of being responsible for our defeat. We want to find out the real 
causes of our defeat, for only then will we be able to avoid a repetition 
of the disaster. Nothing is more fatal to the art of war than to seek 
for the causes of a military disaster where they do not lie. The 
July defeat was not due to Bolshevism alone; it was due to far 
more complicated causes, for otherwise the immensity of the defeat 
would indicate that Bolshevik ideas have an enormous, an extraordinary 
influence in the army, which, of course, is not and 
cannot be the case. In a l l probability the Bolsheviks themselves 
were astonished at the far-reaching consequences of their 
propaganda. But the misfortunes of the Russian army could be 
considered as being at an end if the trouble lay only with the 
Bolsheviks. Unfortunately, the nature of the defeat i s much 
more complex; it was already foreseen by military experts before 
the offensive of June 18; in the ëexaltedí talk of June 18 
about ërevolutionaryí regiments, in the ëredí flags, etc., there 
lurked a mortal danger. 
ìWhen dispatches were received at General Headquarters 
reporting the supposedly brilliant achievements of June 18, weó 
realizing that nothing particularly brilliant had occurred, for we 
had only captured a number of fortified positions which under

J. V. S T A L I N 242 
present battle conditions the enemy had to sacrifice in order to 
ensure his own victoryósaid that, ëwe shall be very lucky if the 
Germans do not launch a counterblow.í But the counterblow was 
launched, and the Russian army, like the French in 1815, was at 
once transformed into a panic-stricken mob. Clearly, the catastrophe 
was not due to Bolshevism alone, but to something deepseated 
in the army organism, which the higher command was 
unable to divine or understand. It is this cause of our defeat, much 
graver than Bolshevism, that we want to discuss, as far as it is 
possible in a newspaper article, because time is short: 
ìGerman ëmilitarismí has established a rule of military 
science: ëThe strongest form of action is the offensive.í This 
German rule proved unsuitable for us from the very beginning of 
the war (the disastrous defeats of Samsonov and Rennenkampf): 
the only thing possible for raw generals and raw soldiers is defence 
with protected flanks. With the natural losses incurred in the 
war, the standard of our generals, officers and lower ranks deteriorated, 
and defence became for us the most advantageous form 
of action. If to this we add the development of a war of positions 
and the crying inadequacy of our equipment, then one does not 
have to be a Bolshevik, but only to have an understanding of the 
nature of things, to be very chary of ëoffensivesí! Narodnoye 
Slovo reports B. V. Savinkov as saying that, under the influence 
of Bolshevik propaganda, the mass of the soldiers began to believe 
that deserters were not traitors to their country but followers 
of ëinternational socialism.í Every old officer, who knows our 
soldiers better than the ëCommitteesí do, will tell you that to 
think like that is to underrate our gallant and very sensible lower 
ranks. These men are imbued with sound common sense; they 
have a full and definite understanding of what the state is; they 
fully realize that generals and officers are also soldiers; they laugh. 
at the novel (and senseless) substitution of the general term 
ësoldierí for ëlower ranks,í which has degraded that honourable 
title, for today even regimental tailors far back in the rear are 
also called ësoldiersí; and they fully understand that a ëdeserterí 
is a deserter, i.e., a contemptible fugitive. And if the idea of 
ërefusing to take the offensiveí advocated by the Bolsheviks began 
to be espoused by these sensible men of our army, it is only because,

THE CAUSES OF THE JULY DEFEAT AT THE FRONT 243 
it logically followed from the nature of things, from all our experience 
in the war. An offensive means one thing to an Englishman 
or Frenchman; it means another thing to a Russian. The former 
are installed in excellent dugouts and enjoy every comfort; they 
wait for their powerful artillery to sweep everything away, and 
only then does the infantry go into action. We, however, have 
always and everywhere fought with human masses, allowing our 
finest regiments to be annihilated. Where are our Guards, where are 
our riflemen? A regiment which has been wiped out two or three 
times and as many times brought up to strength again, even if 
replenished with better elements than is actually the case, will 
hardly consider that ëthe strongest form of action is the 
offensive,í particularly if we add that these enormous losses 
were not justified by the results. On the basis of this experience, 
the former high command agreed to strike only when it was absolutely 
necessary. It was in such a situation that Brusilov was allowed 
to strike his blow in Galicia in May 1916. Its feeble results 
only confirmed the deductions from experience. It is quite possible 
that if the former high command had still existed the ëoffensiveí 
would have figured in the directives only as an idea that 
conduced to raise the fighting spirit of the troops, but would never 
have been put into practice. But suddenly something happened 
which is extraneous to the art of war: ëdilettantismí took over 
the reins, and everybody began to shout for an ëoffensive,í urging 
that it was absolutely necessary and placing faith in what sound 
military theory rejects, namely, special ërevolutionaryí battalions, 
ëdeathí battalions, ëshockí battalions, failing to understand 
that all this was extremely raw material and, moreover, would 
perhaps be withdrawing the most spirited men from the other 
regiments, which would then be entirely transformed into ëoffscourings 
and replacements.í We shall be told that the Allies 
demanded an ëoffensive,í that they called us ëtraitors.í We hold 
too high an opinion of the competent and efficient French General 
Staff to believe that their opinion coincided with the so-called 
public opinion of dilettantes in the art of war. Of course, in circumstances 
where the enemy is in the centre and we and our allies 
on the circumference, every blow struck at the enemy, even when 
it entails for us enormous casualties incommensurate with the

J. V. S T A L I N 244 
results obtained, will always be advantageous to our allies, for 
it diverts enemy forces from them. This is in the nature of things, 
and it is not due to the hardheartedness of our allies. But we must 
consider these things reasonably, with a sense of proportion, and 
not rush to have our people exterminated simply because an ally 
demands it. The art of war does not tolerate fantasies and it responds 
with immediate retribution. The enemy, who has a welltrained 
general staff, sees to that.î 
Proletary, No. 5, 
August 18, 1917 
Unsigned

WHO REALLY IS RESPONSIBLE 
FOR THE DEFEAT AT THE FRONT? 
Additional evidence for a reply to this question will 
now be forthcoming every day. And every day will reveal 
more clearly how vile, how execrable was the conduct 
of those who tried to throw the blame for the July 
defeat at the front on the Bolsheviks. 
Izvestia, the official organ of the Soviets, printed 
in its issue No. 147 an article entitled ìThe Truth About 
the Mlynov Regiment.î This is a document of first-rate 
political importance. 
On July 7, amid the turmoil of events in Petrograd, 
there appeared in the press, to everybodyís surprise, a 
telegram from General Headquarters stating that the 
607th Mlynov Regiment had ìleft the trenches without 
orders,î that this had enabled the Germans to penetrate 
into our territory, and that the misfortune ìis largely 
to be attributed to the influence of Bolshevik agitation. . . .î 
Accusation after accusation was hurled at the Bolsheviks, 
who were being slandered enough as it was. Hatred for 
the Bolsheviks knew no bounds. The entire ìpatrioticî 
press poured fresh fuel on the flames day by day. Every 
day slander blossomed more luxuriantly. 
That was only very recently. 
But what do we learn now?

J. V. S T A L I N 246 
It appears that the first and basic communication 
from General Headquarters, which served as the signal 
for the whole slander campaign, was utterly false. The Regimental 
Committee of the 607th Mlynov Regiment has 
now addressed a statement to the slanderers, which says: 
ìWere you present at the action of July 6? 
ìDo you know that the regiment, consisting of 798 men 
and 54 officers, defended a line of two and a half versts? Do you 
know that only twelve officers and 114 men came out of the battle 
alive, the rest having fallen in defence of their country (lossesó 
75 per cent)? 
ìDo you know that the 607th regiment held its position for 
seven hours under hurricane fire of diabolical intensity, and, 
notwithstanding orders to retire at 8:30 to the support bases, 
stood fast until 11 a.m. (from 3:30 a.m.)? 
ìAnd do you know what sort of trenches we were in, and 
what technical means of defence we had at our disposal?. . .î 
But that is not all. Izvestia publishes the documents 
of an official inquiry, signed by Major-Generals 
Goshtoft and Gavrilov, acting chief of staff Kolesnikov 
and others, in which we read: 
ìThe results of the inquiry show that . . . the 607th Mlynov 
Infantry Regiment and the Sixth Grenadier Division in general 
cannot be accused of treason, treachery or of having abandoned 
their positions without orders. On July 6 the division fought and 
died. . . . The division was wiped out by the fire of more than 200 
enemy guns, itself having only 16.î 
Andónot a word about pernicious Bolshevik agitation. 
Such are the facts. 
And even Izvestia, a newspaper ready to use any 
stick to beat the Bolsheviks with, writes in this connection:

WHO REALLY IS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE DEFEAT AT THE FRONT 247 
ìOf course, it is not the revolutionary structure of the army 
that is responsible for the defeat. But the calumny to which it is 
subjected made it possible to lay the whole blame for the defeat 
on Bolshevik propaganda and on the Committees which connived 
at it.î 
So thatís it, gentlemen of Izvestia! But, forgive us 
for asking, did you not do the same thing yourselves? 
Did you not follow the example of the Black Hundred 
scoundrels in publishing revolting calumnies and 
despicable denunciations of the Bolsheviks? Did you 
not cry: Crucify the Bolsheviks, crucify them, they are 
to blame for everything! . . . 
But listen further: 
ìAnd this calumny (fabricated at General Headquarters) is 
not a chance incident, it is part of a regular system!îócontinues 
the official Izvestia. ìOfficial communications from General Headquarters 
also charged the Guards Corps with treachery. . . . And 
we have seen how incompetent counter-revolutionary generals tried 
to lay the blame for their incompetence, which cost thousands of 
lives, on the army organizations. . . . That is what happened on 
a small scale at Stokhod, and that is what is being repeated on a 
huge scale now. . . . It was by sending such slanderous reports 
that counter-revolutionary field staffs were able to demand the 
disbandment of regiments and the abolition of Committees. It 
was with the aid of such calumny that they were able to shoot 
hundreds of men and to fill the emptied prisons again. By destroying 
the armyís revolutionary organizations, they could again make 
it their tool and wield it against the revolution.î 
So that is what we have come to! Even our most 
rabid opponent, Izvestia, is compelled to admit that 
with the aid of calumny the counter-revolutionary generals 
have filled the emptied prisons again. And whom 
have they filled them with, sirs? With Bolsheviks, internationalists! 
And you of Izvestia, what were you doing,

J. V. S T A L I N 248 
sirs, when the prisons were being filled with our comrades? 
You were shouting together with the counter-revolutionary 
generals: ìAt ëem, at ëem!î Together with 
the worst enemies of the revolution you were crucifying 
old revolutionaries who had sealed their loyalty to 
the revolution with decades of self-sacrificing struggle, 
Together with the Kaledins, Alexinskys, Rarinskys, 
Pereverzevs, Milyukovs and Burtsevs you were jailing 
Bolsheviks and were allowing the lie to be spread that 
the ìBolsheviks were in receipt of German goldî! . . . 
Izvestia, in its fit of candour, goes on to say: 
ìOf course, they (the counter-revolutionary generals) knew 
that the false reports that regiment after regiment was abandoning 
its positions had given rise to uncertainty among all units 
as to whether they would be supported by their neighbours and 
the rear, whether their neighbours had not already retreated, 
and whether they would not simply fall into the hands of the enemy 
if they stuck to their positions. 
ìThey knew all thisóbut their hatred of the revolution blinded 
them. 
ìAnd then, naturally, the regiments did abandon their positions, 
they heeded those who advised them to do so, they discussed 
at meetings whether to carry out orders or not. The panic 
spread. The army was transformed into a fear-crazed herd. . . . 
And then the reprisals started. The soldiers knew where they were 
to blame and where their commanders were to blame. And daily, 
in hundreds of letters, they are protesting: We were betrayed under 
the tsar, we have been betrayed now, and it is we who are being punished 
for it!î (Izvestia, No. 147.) 
Does Izvestia realize what it has admitted in these 
words? Does it realize that these words are a complete 
vindication of the tactics of the Bolsheviks and an utter 
condemnation of the Socialist-Revolutionariesí and 
Mensheviksí entire position?

WHO REALLY IS RESPONSIBLE FOR THE DEFEAT AT THE FRONT 249 
Yes, indeed. Have not you yourselves admitted 
that the soldiers are being betrayed as they were under 
the tsar, have not you yourselves admitted that despicable 
reprisals are being wreaked on the soldiers? Yet 
you approve of the reprisals (you voted for the death 
penalty), you give them your benediction, you assist 
them! With what name do people who act like this deserve 
to be branded? 
Yes, indeed. Have not you yourselves admitted that 
the generals upon whom the lives of hundreds of thousands 
of soldiers depend are guided in their actions by 
hatred of the revolution? Yet you place millions of 
soldiers at the mercy of these generals, you give the 
offensive your benediction, you fraternize with these 
generals at the Moscow Conference! 
But by doing so you sign your own death warrant, 
sirs! Where is the limit to your degradation? 
We have heard the evidence of the Izvestia gentry, 
and we ask: If, as Izvestia says, General Headquarters 
slandered the Mlynov Regiment, if it played a dirty game 
at Stokhod, if it is guided not by considerations of national 
defence, but by considerations of the struggle 
against the revolutionóif all this is true, what guarantee 
have we that the present information about the events 
on the Rumanian Front is not distorted also? What 
guarantee have we that the reactionaries are not deliberately 
and premeditatedly arranging defeat after 
defeat at the front? 
Who Is Responsible 
for the Defeat at the Front? 
Pamphlet Issued 
by Priboy Publishers, Petrograd, 1917

AMERICAN BILLIONS 
What the outcome of the Moscow Conference was is 
now becoming apparent. 
Russkiye Vedomosti71 (August 17, evening edition) 
reports: 
ìAt a meeting of the Central Committee of the Popular Freedom 
Party yesterday, Milyukov presented a report and invited 
the members of the Committee to express their opinions on the 
results of the Moscow Conference. The speakers unanimously approved 
the principle of coalition. The majority of the members 
present agreed that the Moscow Conference had yielded the maximum 
that could have been expected of it.î 
And so, Mr. Milyukovís party is satisfied. It is for a 
coalition. 
ìThe Moscow Conference,î write the defencists, ìwas a victory 
for the democracy (for the defencists, that is?) which has succeeded 
in these tragic times in coming forward as a genuine state force 
around which has rallied all(!) that is virile in Russiaî (Izvestia, 
No. 146). 
Evidently, the defencist party is also satisfied. At 
all events, it pretends to be satisfied, since it, too, is 
for a coalition. 
Well, and what about the government? How does 
it appraise the Moscow Conference?

AMERICAN BILLIONS 251 
According to Izvestia (No. 146), ìthe general impression 
of the members of the Provisional Governmentî 
is that 
ìthe conference was a council of state in the true sense of 
the word. In general, the governmentís foreign and home policies 
were approved. Its economic program encountered no objection. 
Nor, essentially speaking, were there any attacks on the 
governmentís land policy.î 
In a word, the government is also satisfied with the 
conference, since it, too, it appears, is for a coalition. 
Everything is quite clear. A coalition is being arranged, 
a coalition of three forces: the government, the 
Cadets, and the defencists. 
An ìhonest coalitionî under the trade mark of Kerensky, 
Milyukov and Tsereteli can at present be regarded 
as assured. 
Such is the first outcome of the Moscow Conference. 
Under capitalism, not a single enterprise can get 
along without capital. The coalition now formed with 
the government at its head is the biggest enterprise in 
Russia. It will not be able to exist a single hour, a single 
minute, without the necessary capital. Especially now, 
in time of war, which requires incalculable resources. 
The question arises: 
What capital does this new (brand new!) coalition 
intend to live on? 
Listen to Birzhovka (August 17, evening edition): 
ìThe most immediate outcome of the Moscow Conference, 
and especially of the sympathy the Americans displayed for it, 
it is reported, is the possibility of floating a 5,000 million ruble government 
loan abroad. The loan will be floated in the American 
market. This loan will ensure the carrying out of the Provisional 
Governmentís minimum financial program.î

J. V. S T A L I N 252 
The answer is clear. The coalition will live on American 
billions, which the Russian workers and peasants 
will afterwards have to sweat for. 
A coalition of the Russian imperialist bourgeoisie 
(Milyukov!), the military (Kerensky!) and the upper 
strata of the petty bourgeoisie that are obsequiously serving 
the ìvirile forcesî of Russia (Tsereteli!), financed by 
the American imperialist bourgeoisieóthat is the present 
picture. 
The ìsympathyî of American capital for the Moscow 
Conference backed by a 5,000 million ruble loanówas 
it not this that the gentry who convened the conference 
were after? 
It used to be said in Russia that the light of socialism 
came from the West. And this was true; for it was there, 
in the West, that we learned revolution and socialism. 
With the beginning of the revolutionary movement in 
Russia the situation somewhat changed. 
In 1906, when the revolution in Russia was only 
developing, the West helped the tsarist reactionaries 
to recover by lending them 2,000 million rubles. And 
tsardom did indeed recover, at the cost of the further 
financial subjection of Russia to the West. 
Apropos of this, it was remarked at the time that 
the West was exporting not only socialism to Russia, 
but also reaction, in the shape of thousands of millions 
in money. 
Now a more eloquent picture is unfolding. At a moment 
when the Russian revolution is exerting every 
effort to uphold its gains, and when imperialism is striving 
to crush it, American capital is supplying thousands 
of millions to a Kerensky-Milyukov-Tsereteli coalition

AMERICAN BILLIONS 253 
for the purpose of completely curbing the Russian revolution 
and thus undermining the mounting revolutionary 
movement in the West. 
Such is the fact. 
It is not socialism and emancipation that the West 
is exporting to Russia so much as subjection and counter-
revolution. Is that not so? 
But a coalition is an alliance. Against whom is the 
Kerensky-Milyukov-Tsereteli alliance directed? 
Evidently, against those who did not attend the 
Moscow Conference, who boycotted it, who fought itó 
namely, the revolutionary workers of Russia. 
An ìhonest coalitionî of Kerensky, Milyukov and 
Tsereteli, financed by the American capitalists, against 
the revolutionary workers of Russiaóis that not so, 
Messieurs the defencists? 
Very good, we make note of it. 
Proletary, No. 6, 
August 19, 1917 
Editorial

THIS ELECTION DAY 
The elections to the Petrograd City Duma take place 
today. The outcome will depend on you, comrade workers, 
and on you, comrade soldiers. The elections are 
universal and equal. The vote of every soldier, of every 
working man and every working woman will be equal 
to the vote of any capitalist, houseowner, professor or 
government official. You, and you alone, comrades, will 
be to blame if you do not make full use of this right. 
You were capable of battling against the tsarist 
police in the streetsóbe capable now of battling for your 
interests by voting for our Party! 
You were capable of defending your rights against 
the counter-revolutionariesóbe capable now of denying 
them your confidence in todayís elections! 
You were capable of tearing the mask from the betrayers 
of the revolutionóbe capable now of crying to them: 
ìHands off!î 
You have before you, first of all, Milyukovís party, 
the Party of Popular Freedom. That party champions 
the interests of the landlords and capitalists. It is opposed 
to the workers, peasants and soldiers, for it is against 
workersí control of industry, against the transfer of the

THIS ELECTION DAY 255 
landed estates to the peasants, and in favour of the 
death penalty for soldiers at the front. It was that party, 
the Cadet Party, that already in the beginning of June 
demanded an immediate offensive at the front, which 
has cost the country hundreds of thousands of lives. It 
was that party, the Cadet Party, that worked for and at 
last achieved a triumph for the counter-revolution and the 
wreaking of reprisals on the workers, soldiers and sailors. 
To vote for Milyukovís party would be to betray yourselves, 
your wives and children, and your brothers in 
the rear and at the front. 
Comrades, not a single vote for the Party of Popular 
Freedom! 
You have before you, next, the defencists, the Menshevik 
and Socialist-Revolutionary parties. These parties champion 
the interests of the well-to-do small proprietors of 
town and country. That is why every time the class struggle 
assumes a decisive character they are to be found in 
the same camp as the landlords and capitalists against 
the workers, peasants and soldiers. So it was in the July 
days, when the Menshevik and Socialist-Revolutionary 
parties, in alliance with the bourgeoisie, disarmed and 
struck at the workers and soldiers. So it was at the time 
of the Moscow Conference, when these parties, in alliance 
with the bourgeoisie, endorsed repressive measures and 
the death penalty against the workers and the soldiers 
at the front. 
One of the reasons for the victory of the counter-revolutionaries 
is that the Socialist-Revolutionary and Menshevik 
parties helped them to curb the revolution by 
concluding an agreement with the landlords and capitalists.

J. V. S T A L I N 256 
One of the reasons why the counter-revolutionaries 
are now consolidating their positions is that the Socialist-
Revolutionary and Menshevik parties are shielding 
them from the wrath of the people and, under 
the guise of revolution, are carrying out their commands. 
To vote for these parties would be to vote for an alliance 
with the counter-revolutionaries against the workers 
and the poor peasants. 
To vote for these parties would be to vote in favour 
of endorsing the arrests in the rear and the death penalty 
at the front. 
Comrades, not a single vote for the defencists, the Mensheviks 
and Socialist-Revolutionaries! 
You have before you, lastly, the Novaya Zhizn group, 
List No. 12. This group expresses the sentiments of the 
intellectuals whose heads are in the clouds and who 
are divorced from realities and the movement. That is 
why it is eternally wavering between revolution and 
counter-revolution, between war and peace, between the 
workers and the capitalists, between the landlords and 
the peasants. 
On the one hand it is for the workers, on the other it 
does not want to break with the capitalistsóand that is 
why it so shamefully repudiates the July demonstration 
of the workers and soldiers. 
On the one hand it is for the peasants, on the other 
it declines to break with the landlordsóand that is why 
it is opposed to the immediate transfer of the landed 
estates to the peasants and suggests waiting for the 
Constituent Assembly, the convocation of which has 
been postponed, perhaps forever.

THIS ELECTION DAY 257 
In words, the Novaya Zhizn group is for peace; in 
deeds, it is against peace, for it calls for support of the 
ìLiberty Loan,î which is intended for the purpose of 
continuing the imperialist war. 
But whoever supports the ìLiberty Loanî helps to 
prolong the war, helps imperialism, and in fact fights 
internationalism. 
In words, the Novaya Zhizn group is against repressions 
and jailings; in deeds, it is in favour of repressions 
and jailings, for it has entered into an alliance 
with the defencists, who support both repressions and 
jailings. 
But whoever enters into an alliance with the defencists 
helps the counter-revolution, and in fact fights the 
revolution! 
Comrades, learn to judge people by their deeds, not 
by their words! 
Learn to appraise parties and groups by their actions, 
not by their promises! 
If the Novaya Zhizn group proposes a fight for peace 
and at the same time appeals for support of the ìLiberty 
Loan,î then you can be certain that it is bringing grist 
to the mill of the imperialists. 
If the Novaya Zhizn group sometimes flirts with the 
Bolsheviks and at the same time supports the defencists, 
then you can be certain that it is bringing grist to the 
mill of the counter-revolutionaries. 
To vote for this double-faced group, to vote for 
List No. 12, would be to enter the service of the defencists, 
who in their turn are serving the counter-revolutionaries. 
Comrades, not a single vote for the Novaya Zhizn group!

J. V. S T A L I N 258 
Our Party is the party of the urban and rural workers, 
the party of the poor peasants, the party of the oppressed 
and exploited. 
All the bourgeois parties, all the bourgeois newspapers, 
all the vacillating, lukewarm groups detest and 
vituperate our Party. 
Why? 
Because: 
Our Party is the only one that stands for a revolutionary 
struggle against the landlords and capitalists; 
Our Party is the only one that stands for the immediate 
transfer of the landed estates to the Peasant Committees; 
Our Party is the only one that stands for workersí 
control of industry in opposition to all the capitalists; 
Our Party is the only one that stands for a democratic 
organization of commodity exchange between 
town and country in opposition to the profiteers and 
marauders; 
Our Party is the only one that stands for the complete 
liquidation of counter-revolution in the rear and 
at the front; 
Our Party is the only one that staunchly protects 
the revolutionary organizations of the workers, peasants 
and soldiers; 
Our Party is the only one that wages a resolute and 
revolutionary fight for peace and brotherhood among 
nations; 
Our Party is the only one that fights determinedly 
and steadfastly for the conquest of power by the workers 
and poor peasants;

THIS ELECTION DAY 259 
Our Party, and our Party alone, is free from the 
stigma of having supported the death penalty at the 
front. 
That is why the bourgeois and landlords detest our 
Party so heartily. 
That is why you must vote today for our Party. 
Workers, soldiers, working women, 
Vote for Our Party, for List No. 6! 
Proletary, No. 7, 
August 20, 1917 
Editorial

A PERIOD OF PROVOCATION 
Provocation is a tried and tested weapon of counterrevolution. 
The massacre of June 1848, the surrender of Paris in 
1871, provocation in the rear and at the front as a means 
of combating revolutionówho is not familiar with these 
perfidious methods of the bourgeoisie? 
But nowhere in the world has the bourgeoisie resorted 
to this poisonous weapon so brazenly and freely 
as here in Russia. 
Did not Ryabushinsky openly and publicly threaten 
recently that in the last resort the bourgeoisie would 
not hesitate to call in the aid of the ìgaunt hand 
of famine and destitutionî to subdue the workers and 
peasants? 
And has not the bourgeoisie already passed from word 
to deed by closing down mills and factories and throwing 
tens of thousands of workers on to the streets? 
Who would undertake to say that this is fortuitous 
and not a deliberate plan to provoke a massacre and 
drown the revolution in blood? 
But the principal sphere of provocation is not the 
rear but the front.

A PERIOD OF PROVOCATION 261 
Already in March there was talk of certain generals 
planning to surrender Riga. They failed for ìreasons 
beyond their control.î 
This July the Russian forces evacuated Tarnopol 
and Czernowitz. With one accord the bourgeois press 
hirelings accused the soldiers and our Party of being 
responsible. And then? It turned out that ìthe retreat 
was provoked,î that the ìtreachery was perpetrated 
according to the book, in accordance with a deliberate 
and premeditated plan.î And certain generals are being 
definitely mentioned as having made the arrangements 
for the automobiles to dash from unit to unit, ordering 
the soldiers to retreat. 
Who would undertake to say that the counter-revolutionaries 
are empty windbags who know not what 
they do? 
Now Rigaís turn has come. The telegraph brings the 
news that Riga has been surrendered. The bourgeois 
press hirelings have already started a hue and cry against 
the soldiers, alleging that they are fleeing in disorder. 
The counter-revolutionary General Headquarters, 
in union with Vecherneye Vremya, is trying to throw 
the blame on the revolutionary soldiers. We shall 
not be surprised if a demonstration is started on the 
Nevsky Prospect today with the cry: ìDown with the 
Bolsheviks!î 
Yet the telegrams of Voitinsky, Assistant Commissar 
at Riga, leave no doubt that the soldiers are being 
slandered. 
ìBefore all Russia,î Voitinsky telegraphs, ìI testify that 
the troops faithfully carried out all the orders of their commanders 
and went to certain death.î

J. V. S T A L I N 262 
Such is the testimony of an eyewitness. 
But General Headquarters keeps slandering the soldiers, 
asserting that regiments took to flight. 
And the bourgeois press keeps harping on ìtreacheryî 
at the front. 
Is it not clear that the counter-revolutionary generals 
and the bourgeois press are slandering the soldiers in 
fulfilment of some definite plan? 
Is it not clear that this plan is as like as two peas 
to the plan staged at Tarnopol and Czernowitz? 
And is it not clear, lastly, that the period of provocation 
which has set in in Russia is the instrument of the 
dictatorship of the imperialist bourgeoisie, the complete 
liquidation of which must be the primary task of the 
proletariat and the revolutionary soldiers? 
Proletary, No. 8, 
August 22, 1917 
Editorial

DIVISION OF LABOUR 
IN THE ìSOCIALIST-REVOLUTIONARYî 
PARTY 
At the last meeting of the Petrograd Soviet of 
Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies the Socialist-Revolutionaries 
voted for the abolition of the death penalty and 
joined in protesting against the arrest of Bolsheviks. 
That, of course, is very good and very commendable. 
But we take the liberty in this connection of asking 
one modest question: 
Who introduced the death penalty at the front, and 
who arrested the Bolsheviks? 
Wasnít it the Socialist-Revolutionaries (with the gracious 
assistance of the Cadets and Mensheviks!)? As far 
as we know, citizen A. F. Kerensky, the Prime Minister, 
is a member of the Socialist-Revolutionary Party. His 
name adorned the list of candidates of the Socialist- 
Revolutionary Party in the elections to the Petrograd 
City Duma. 
As far as we know, citizen B. V. Savinkov, Deputy 
Minister of War, is also a member of the Socialist-Revolutionary 
Party.

J. V. S T A L I N 264 
Well, wasnít it these two prominent ìSocialist- 
Revolutionariesî who were primarily responsible for the 
restoration of the death penalty at the front? (To them 
should be added General Kornilov, but he has not joined 
the Socialist-Revolutionary Party so far.) 
Further, we know that citizen Chernov, Minister of 
Agriculture, is also supposed to be a member of the 
Socialist-Revolutionary Party. 
And lastly, citizen N. D. Avksentyev, Minister of 
the Interior, that is to say the person who, next to Kerensky, 
occupies the most prominent post in the cabinet, 
is also a member of the Socialist-Revolutionary Party. 
Well, wasnít it all these right honourable ìSocialist- 
Revolutionariesî who introduced the death penalty at 
the front and arrested the Bolsheviks? 
One may ask: What is this strange division of labour 
in the Socialist-Revolutionary Party, that some of its 
members vehemently protest against the introduction 
of the death penalty while others introduce it with their 
own hands?. . . 
It is truly astonishing! It was so very recently that 
we overthrew the autocratic system, it was so very recently 
that we began to live ìin the European manner,î 
yet we have adopted at once all the objectionable features 
of ìEuropeanism.î Take any bourgeois-radical partyó 
in France, let us say. It will unfailingly call itself a 
socialist partyóìRadical Socialist,î ìIndependent Socialist,î 
etc., etc. Before the electors, the masses, the 
ìlower orders,î these parties always scatter ìLeftî 
phrases, particularly on the eve of elections, and particularly 
when they are being hard pressed by a competitor, 
a genuine socialist party. But ìat the top,î the

DIVISION OF LABOUR IN THE ìSOCIALIST-REVOLUTIONARYî PARTY 265 
ìRadical Socialistî and ìIndependent Socialistî government 
ministers calmly carry on with their bourgeois 
work, totally regardless of the socialist aspirations of 
their electors. 
That is how the Socialist-Revolutionaries are behaving 
now. 
A happy party! Who introduced the death penalty? 
The Socialist-Revolutionaries! Who protested against the 
death penalty? The Socialist-Revolutionaries!óYou pay 
your money and take your choice. . . . 
The Socialist-Revolutionaries hope in this way 
to preserve their innocence (retain their popularity with 
the masses) and make a fortune nevertheless (retain 
their Ministerial portfolios). 
But, it will be said, disagreements occur in every 
party; some members think one way, others another. 
Yes, but there are disagreements and disagreements. 
If some are for the hangmen and others against, to reconcile 
such ìdisagreementsî within one party is rather 
difficult. And if, moreover, it is the most responsible leaders 
of the party, the government ministers, who are 
for the hangmen, and put their opinion into practice 
straightaway, every politically-minded person will judge 
the partyís policies by the actions of these ministers, 
and not by this or that resolution of protest which the 
party rank and file may endorse. 
The shame has not been wiped out. The Socialist- 
Revolutionary Party remains a death penalty party, 
a jailersí party which arrests working-class leaders. 
The Socialist-Revolutionaries will never rid themselves 
of the shameful stigma that it was prominent 
members of their party who re-introduced the death

J. V. S T A L I N 266 
penalty. They will never wash off the stain that it was 
their government that encouraged the infamous calumniation 
of the leaders of the workersí party; that it was 
their, government that tried to stage a new Dreyfus 
affair72 against Lenin. . . . 
Proletary, No. 9, 
August 23, 1917 
Unsigned

YELLOW ALLIANCE 
The Russian revolution is not something isolated. It 
is vitally bound up with the revolutionary movement 
in the West. More, it is a part of that great movement of 
the proletarians of all countries whose mission it is to 
shatter the very foundations of world capitalism. It is 
quite natural that every step of our revolution should 
inevitably call forth an answering tide in the West, that 
every one of its victories should call forth animation 
and growth in the world revolutionary movement and 
stimulate the workers of all countries to fight capital. 
This the West-European imperialist sharks cannot 
but know. They have therefore decided to declare war to 
the death on the Russian revolution. 
The British and French capitalists launched a campaign 
against our revolution at its very inception. Already 
at that time their organs, The Times73 and Le 
Matin,74 reviled the revolutionary Soviets and Committees 
and demanded their dispersal. 
Two months later, at a secret conference in Switzerland, 
the imperialists again discussed measures of combating 
the ìspread of revolutionî and directed their 
blows first and foremost against the revolution in Russia.

J. V. S T A L I N 268 
They are now passing to an open attack, using the 
defeat at Riga as a pretext. Putting the whole blame on 
the soldiers, they call for the further intensification of 
counter-revolution in Russia. 
Listen to the reports in Birzheviye Vedomosti. 
Here is a dispatch from Paris: 
ìThe retreat, or rather the flight, of the Second Army without 
giving battle and the fall of Riga have called forth here a spasm 
of pain, indignation and disgust. 
ìThe Matin asserts that the Russian pacifists, who are to 
blame for this disaster, have proved just as incompetent as the 
bad advisers of the former emperor, and even more harmful. 
ìThe paper declares that it cannot understand the obstinacy 
of the Soviet of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies in continuing 
in spite of these tragic object lessons, to defend such absurd 
institutions as the army committees.î 
So writes the organ of the French capitalists. 
And here is a dispatch from London: 
ìThe Daily Chronicle says that the first thing necessary is 
to restore discipline in the army. The Germans owe their swift 
and highly important victory to the same causes that enabled 
them to occupy Galicia and Bukovina, namely, disobedience to 
orders and treachery among the Russian troops.î 
So say the British imperialists. 
ìFlight without giving battle,î ìabsurd army committees,î 
ìrestoration of disciplineî (the death penalty 
is not enough for them!), ìtreachery among the Russian 
troops.î 
Such are the compliments these plutocrats shower on 
the Russian soldiers who are shedding their lifeblood! 
And that after the general admission of eyewitnesses 
that ìalthough retreating, the army is offering staunch 
resistance to the enemyî and that ìthe troops in the area

YELLOW ALLIANCE 269 
of the breach are carrying out unquestioningly and 
honourably the tasks assigned themî!!! 
But the point, of course, is not merely the abuse and 
vile calumnies showered on the soldiers. 
The point is that in slandering the soldiers, the 
British and French capitalists are seeking to take advantage 
of the reverses at the front to get the revolutionary 
organizations in Russia completely suppressed and 
to secure the complete triumph of the dictatorship of imperialism. 
That is the crux of the matter. 
When Purishkevich and Milyukov shed crocodile tears 
over the fall of Riga and slander the soldiers, and at 
the same time revile the Soviets and the Committees, 
it means that they are glad of the opportunity to demand 
further repressive measures, so as to bring about the 
complete triumph of the landlords and capitalists. 
When the Western imperialists talk about a ìspasm 
of painî over the fall of Riga and put the whole blame 
on the soldiers, and at the same time abuse the ìabsurd 
army committees,î it means that they are glad of the 
opportunity to smash the last remnants of the revolutionary 
organizations in Russia. 
That, and that alone, is the political import of the 
joint campaign of lies and calumny against the Russian 
soldiers who are laying down their lives on the Northern 
Front. 
An alliance of native and European imperialists who 
are slandering the soldiers for the purpose of exploiting 
the military defeat at Riga against the Russian revolution 
which is shedding its lifebloodóthat is the situation 
we have now.

J. V. S T A L I N 270 
Let the workers and soldiers remember this! 
Let them know that only in alliance with the workers 
of the West, only by shaking the foundations of capitalism 
in the West, can they count on the triumph of the 
revolution in Russia! 
Let them know this, and let them bend every effort 
to confront the yellow alliance of the imperialists with 
the Red alliance of the revolutionary workers and soldiers 
of all countries. 
Rabochy, No. 1, 
August 25, 1917 
Editorial

EITHERóOR75 
Events are moving. Coalition succeeds coalition, repressions 
at the front are followed by repressions in the 
rearóand ìall to no effect,î because the cardinal evil of 
our day, the general state of disruption of the country, 
continues to grow and is assuming ever more menacing 
proportions. 
The country is on the eve of famine. Kazan and Nizhni-
Novgorod, Yaroslavl and Ryazan, Kharkov and Rostov, 
the Donets Basin and the Central Industrial Region, 
Moscow and Petrograd, the front and the immediate 
rearóall these and many other areas are in the throes 
of an acute food crisis. Hunger riots have already broken 
out, and are being exploited, clumsily as yet, by counterrevolutionary 
agents. . . . 
ìThe peasants are holding back grain,î comes the 
complaint from everywhere. 
But the peasants are ìholding back grainî not ìfrom 
stupidity,î but because they have lost faith in the government 
and do not want to ìassistî it any longer. In March 
and April the peasants believed in the Soviets, and, 
through them, in the government, and grain flowed in 
abundance both to the towns and to the front. Now they

J. V. S T A L I N 
FROM MARX 
TO MAO 
 
NOT FOR 
COMMERCIAL 
DISTRIBUTION 
272 
are losing faith in the government because it protects 
the privileges of the landlordsóand grain has ceased 
to flow. The peasants are hoarding their grain, preferring 
to wait for ìbetter times.î 
The peasants are ìholding back grainî not out of 
wickedness, but because there is nothing they can exchange 
it for. The peasants need calico, footwear, iron, 
paraffin, sugar, but these products are supplied to 
them in insufficient quantities; and there is no sense in 
exchanging grain for paper money, which is no substitute 
for manufactures and is moreover depreciating 
in value. 
We say nothing of the ìdislocationî of the transport 
system, which is too undeveloped to supply both the army 
and the country equally well. 
All this, coupled with the incessant mobilizations, 
which are robbing the countryside of its finest labour 
forces and resulting in curtailment of crop areas, inevitably 
leads to disruption of the food supply, from 
which both the country and the army equally suffer. 
At the same time, industrial disruption, too, is 
growing and spreading, tending in its turn to increase 
the disruption of the food supply. 
Coal and oil ìfamines,î iron and cotton ìcrises,î 
causing textile, metallurgical and other plants to close 
downóthat is now the familiar picture, confronting the 
country with the menace of industrial paralysis, mass 
unemployment and a goods shortage. 
The trouble is not only that the mills and factories 
are producing chiefly for the war and cannot at the same 
time satisfy the needs of the country in equal measure, 
but also that the capitalists are artificially aggravating

EITHERóOR 273 
these ìfaminesî and ìcrisesî in order either to raise 
prices (profiteering!), or to break the resistance of the 
workers, who, owing to the rising cost of living, are 
striving to get their wages raised (stay-in strikes of the 
capitalists!), or else to cause unemployment by shutting 
down plants (lockouts!) and drive the workers to outbreaks 
of desperation, in order to put an end to their 
ìimmoderate demandsî ìonce and for all.î 
It is no secret that the Donets coal owners are engineering 
curtailment of production and promoting unemployment. 
Everyone knows that the Transcaspian cotton planters 
are shouting about a cotton ìfamineî when they themselves 
are hoarding vast quantities of cotton with an 
eye to profiteering. And their friends, the textile manufacturers, 
who are sharing the fruits of this profiteering 
and are themselves organizing it, hypocritically complain 
of a shortage of cotton, shut down their mills and 
increase the unemployment. 
Everyone remembers Ryabushinskyís threat to ìseize 
by the throatî the revolutionary proletariat ìwith the 
gaunt hand of famine and destitution.î 
Everyone knows that the capitalists have already 
passed from word to deed and have secured the unburdening 
of Petrograd and Moscow, the closing down 
of a whole number of factories. 
The result is an advancing industrial paralysis and 
the threat of an absolute goods famine. 
We say nothing of the profound financial crisis by 
which Russia is now gripped. A debt of 50,000-55,000 million 
rubles, involving an interest payment of 3,000 million 
rubles annually, at a time when productive forces are

J. V. S T A L I N 274 
in a state of general decline, speaks eloquently enough 
of the drastic state of Russiaís finances. 
The recent ìsetbacksî at the front, so successfully provoked 
by some skilful hand, only supplement the general 
picture. 
The country is heading irresistibly towards an unparalleled 
catastrophe. 
The government, which in a brief period has enacted 
a thousand and one repressive measures but not a single 
ìsocial reform,î is absolutely incapable of saving the 
country from mortal danger. 
More, by obeying the will of the imperialist bourgeoisie 
on the one hand, and being reluctant on the other to 
abolish the ìSoviets and Committeesî at once, the government 
is stirring up an outburst of general discontent 
from both the Right and the Left. 
On the one hand, the imperialist clique, headed by 
the Cadets, bombards the government with demands for 
ìvigorousî measures against the revolution. When Purishkevich 
the other day spoke of the necessity for a ìmilitary 
dictatorshipî of ìgovernor-generalsî and for the 
ìarrest of the Soviets,î he was only frankly expressing 
the aspirations of the Cadets. They are supported by 
Allied capital, which is bringing pressure to bear on the 
government by drastically forcing down the exchange rate 
of the ruble on the bourse and peremptorily demanding: 
ìRussia must fight, not talkî (Daily Express, see Russkaya 
Volya,76 August 18). 
All power to the imperialists, home and Alliedósuch 
is the slogan of the counter-revolution. 
On the other hand, profound discontent is brewing 
among the worker and peasant masses, who are doomed to

EITHERóOR 275 
land hunger and unemployment and are subjected to 
repressive measures and the death penalty. The swing 
to the Left of the soldier-peasant masses, who only yesterday 
still trusted the compromisers, was very clearly 
reflected in the Petrograd elections, which undermined 
the strength and prestige of the compromising parties. 
All power to the proletariat, supported by the poor 
peasantsósuch is the slogan of the revolution 
Either, or! 
Either with the landlords and capitalists, and then 
the complete triumph of the counter-revolution. 
Or with the proletariat and the poor peasantry, and 
then the complete triumph of the revolution. 
The policy of compromise and coalition is doomed to 
failure. 
What is the solution? 
It is necessary to break with the landlords and turn 
over the land to the Peasant Committees. This the 
peasants will understand, and grain will be forthcoming. 
It is necessary to break with the capitalists and establish 
democratic control over the banks, mills and factories. 
This the workers will understand, and ìproductivity 
of labourî will rise. 
It is necessary to break with the profiteers and marauders 
and organize trade between town and country 
on democratic lines. This the population will understand, 
and the famine will be stopped. 
It is necessary to break the imperialist threads, which 
enmesh Russia on all sides, and proclaim fair conditions 
of peace. Then the army will understand why it is under 
arms, and if Wilhelm does not consent to such a peace, 
the Russian soldiers will fight him like lions.

J. V. S T A L I N 276 
It is necessary to ìtransferî all power to the proletariat 
and the poor peasants. This the workers of the West 
will understand and they will, in their turn, launch an 
assault on their own imperialist cliques. 
This will mean the end of the war and the beginning 
of the workersí revolution in Europe. 
That is the solution indicated by the development 
of Russia and by the whole world situation. 
Rabochy, No. 1, 
August 25, 1917 
Unsigned

WE DEMAND! 
Events are moving fast. After the Moscow Conference 
came the surrender of Riga and the demand for repressive 
measures. After the unsuccessful slander campaign against 
the soldiers at the front came the provocative rumours 

about a ìBolshevik plotî and new demands for repressive 
measures. Now, after the exposure of the provocative 
rumours comes the open dÈmarche of Kornilov, 
who demands the dismissal of the Provisional Government 
and the establishment of a military dictatorship. 
And, as in the July days, Milyukovís party, the Party 
of Popular Freedom, resigns from the government, thereby 
openly supporting Kornilovís counter-revolutionary 
conspiracy. 
The upshot is the march of Kornilovís regiments on 
Petrograd for the purpose of establishing a military 
dictatorship, Kornilovís dismissal by the Provisional 
Government, Kerenskyís announcement of a crisis, Kishkinís 
resignation from the Cadet Party, which is implicated 
in the plot, and the formation of a so-called 
revolutionary Directory. 
And so: 
It is a fact that the counter-revolution needed a ìBolshevik 
plotî in order lo clear the way for Kornilov,

J. V. S T A L I N 278 
who is marching on Petrograd ostensibly for the purpose 
of ìputting down the Bolsheviks.î 
It is a fact that the entire bourgeois press, from Russkaya 
Volya and Birzhovka to Novoye Vremya and Rech, 
has been helping Kornilov by assiduously spreading 
rumours of a ìBolshevik plot.î 
It is a fact that Kornilovís present action is merely 
the continuation of the notorious machinations of the 
counter-revolutionary higher army officers, who surrendered 
Tarnopol in July and Riga in August in order to 
exploit the ìdefeatsî at the front for the purpose of 
achieving the ìcompleteî triumph of counter-revolution. 
It is a fact that the Cadet Party is now, as it was in 
July, in one camp with the traitors at the front and the 
foul counter-revolutionaries in the rear. 
Our Party was right when it denounced the Cadets as 
the moving spirit of the bourgeois counter-revolution. 
Our Party was right when, as early as the beginning 
of June, it called for a resolute struggle against the counter-
revolution and the arrest of the ìimplicatedî persons 
(Kaledin, etc.). 
The counter-revolution did not begin yesterday nor 
with the Kornilov conspiracy. I t began at least as 
far back as June, when the government assumed the 
offensive at the front and began to pursue a policy of repression; 
when the counter-revolutionary generals surrendered 
Tarnopol, threw the whole blame on the soldiers, 
and secured the restoration of the death penalty 
at the front; when the Cadets, sabotaging the government 
already in July and relying on the support of Allied 
capital, established their hegemony in the Provisional 
Government; and, lastly, when the leaders of the Central

WE DEMAND! 279 
Executive Committee, the Mensheviks and Socialist-Revolutionaries, 
instead of breaking with the Cadets and 
uniting with the July demonstrators, turned their weapons 
against the workers and soldiers. 
That is a fact which it would be absurd to deny. 
The fight now going on between the coalition government 
and the Kornilov party is a contest not between 
revolution and counter-revolution, but between two different 
methods of counter-revolutionary policy. And the 
Kornilov party, the sworn enemy of the revolution, having 
surrendered Riga, does not hesitate to march on Petrograd 
for the purpose of preparing the ground for the restoration 
of the old regime. 
The workers and soldiers will take every measure 
to administer a decisive rebuff to Kornilovís counterrevolutionary 
bands should they appear in revolutionary 
Petrograd. 
The workers and soldiers will not permit the capital 
of Russia to be defiled by the filthy hands of enemies 
of the revolution. 
They will defend the battle standard of the revolution 
with their lives. 
They will defend the battle standard of the revolution, 
however, not in order that one dictatorship alien 
to them in spirit might be replaced by another no less 
alien to them, but in order to pave the way for the complete 
triumph of the Russian revolution. 
Today, when the country is stifling in the clutches of 
economic disruption and war, and the vultures of counter-
revolution are plotting its doom, the revolution 
must find the strength and the means to save it from crumbling 
and disintegrating.

J. V. S T A L I N 280 
It is not the replacement of one set of ìrulingî groups 
by another, and not playing at dictatorship that is needed 
now, but the complete liquidation of the bourgeois 
counter-revolution and resolute measures in the interests 
of the majority of the peoples of Russia. 
To this end, the Bolshevik Party demands: 
1) Immediate removal of the counter-revolutionary 
generals in the rear and at the front and their replacement 
by commanders elected by the soldiers and officers, 
and in general the complete democratization of the army 
from top to bottom; 
2) Restoration of the revolutionary soldiersí organizations, 
which alone are capable of establishing democratic 
discipline in the army; 
3) Repeal of all repressive measures, and, in the first 
place, the death penalty; 
4) Immediate placing of all landed estates at the disposal 
of the Peasant Committees, and supply of agricultural 
implements to the poor peasants; 
5) Legislative enactment of an 8-hour day and institution 
of democratic control over factories, mills and 
banks, with representatives of the workers predominating 
in the control bodies; 
6) Complete democratization of the financial systemó 
in the first place, ruthless taxation of capital and capitalist 
property and confiscation of the scandalous 
war profits; 
7) Organization of proper exchange between town and 
country, so that the towns receive the food supplies and 
the rural districts the manufactured goods they need; 
8) Immediate proclamation of the right of the nations 
of Russia to self-determination;

WE DEMAND! 281 
9) Restoration of liberties, decreeing of a democratic 
republic, and immediate convocation of a Constituent 
Assembly; 
10) Annulment of the secret treaties with the Allies 
and proposal of terms for a universal democratic peace. 
The Party declares that unless these demands are 
realized it will be impossible to save the revolution, 
which for half a year now has been stifling in the clutches 
of war and general disruption. 
The Party declares that the only possible way of 
securing these demands is to break with the capitalists, 
completely liquidate the bourgeois counter-revolution, 
and transfer power in the country to the revolutionary 
workers, peasants and soldiers. 
That is the only means of saving the country and 
the revolution from collapse. 
Rabochy, No. 4, 
August 28, 1917 
Editorial

THE CONSPIRACY CONTINUES77 
Who Are They? 
Yesterday we wrote that the Cadets were the moving 
spirit of the counter-revolution. We affirmed this on the 
basis not only of ìrumoursî but of generally known 
factsóthe resignation of the Cadets from the government 
at the critical moments of the ìsurrenderî of Tarnopol in 
July and of the Kornilov conspiracy in August. For it 
could not have been fortuitous that both in July and in 
August the Cadets were in one camp with the traitors 
at the front and the most rabid counter-revolutionaries 
in the rear against the Russian people. 
Today, Izvestia and the defencists, those inveterate 
compromisers with the Cadets, unreservedly confirm 
what we said about the Cadets yesterday. 
ìLvov did not conceal,î write the defencists, ìthat this 
(a military dictatorship) is desired not only by General Kornilov, 
but also by a certain group of public men who at the present moment 
are at General Headquartersî (Izvestia). 
And so: 
It is a fact that General Headquarters are the headquarters 
of the counter-revolution. 
It is a fact that the general staff of the counter-revolution 
consists of ìcertain public men.î

THE CONSPIRACY CONTINUES 283 
Who are these ìpublic menî? 
Let us see: 
ìIt has been established beyond a doubt that a number of public 
mem who have very close ideological and personal connections 
with representatives of the Cadet Party are implicated in the 
plotî (Izvestia). 
And so: 
It is a fact that Messieurs the defencists, who only 
yesterday were embracing the ìvirile forcesî of the 
country in the person of ìrepresentatives of the Cadet 
Party,î are today compelled to rank them as plotters 
against the revolution. 
It is a fact that the plot has been organized and is 
being directed by ìrepresentatives of the Cadet Party.î 
Our Party was right when it asserted that the first 
condition for the victory of the revolution was a rupture 
with the Cadets. 
What Are They Counting on? 
Yesterday we wrote that the Kornilov party is the 
sworn enemy of the Russian revolution; that, after having 
surrendered Riga, Kornilov would not hesitate to surrender 
Petrograd in order to ensure the victory of the 
counter-revolution. 
Today Izvestia unreservedly confirms our statement 
Chief of Staff General Lukomsky, who is the actual soul 
of the revolt, states that ìin the event of the Provisional Government 
rejecting General Kornilovís demand, internecine warfare 
at the front may lead to a breach in the front and the appearance 
of the enemy in places where we least expect him.î

J. V. S T A L I N 284 
This sounds, does it not, very much like a threat 
to surrender Petrograd, say? 
And here is an even more explicit statement: 
ìEvidently, in his effort to secure the success of the conspiracy, 
General Lukomsky will not shrink from downright treason. 
His threat that the rejection of General Kornilovís demand may 
lead to civil war at the front, to the opening of the front to the 
enemy, and the disgrace of a separate peace can only be regarded 
as signifying his firm determination to come to an arrangement 
with the Germans in order to secure the success of the conspiracy.î 
Do you hear this?óìan arrangement with the Germans,î 
ìopening of the front,î a ìseparate peace.î . . . 
There you have the real ìtraitorsî and ìtreasonmongersîó
the Cadets, who ìare implicated in the plot,î 
and who are lending their presence at General Headquarters 
to hide the threat of an ìopening of the frontî and 
an ìarrangement with the Germans.î 
For months on end these ìfront-openingî heroes have 
been reviling our Party, accusing it of ìtreasonî and 
talking about ìGerman gold.î For months on end the yellow 
hirelings of the banks, Novoye Vremya and Birzhovka, 
Rech and Russkaya Volya, have been playing up these 
vile allegations. And what do we find? Even the defencists 
are now obliged to admit that the treacheryóat 
the frontóis the work of the commanders and their ideological 
inspirers. 
Let the workers and soldiers remember this! 
Let them know that the provocative howls of the bourgeois 
press about the ìtreacheryî of the soldiers and the 
Bolsheviks were only a camouflage for the actual treachery 
of the generals and the ìpublic menî of the Cadet 
Party.

THE CONSPIRACY CONTINUES 285 
Let them know that when the bourgeois press raises 
a howl about the ìtreacheryî of the soldiers, it is a sure 
sign that the moving spirits behind that press have already 
planned treachery and are trying to throw the 
blame on the soldiers. 
Let the workers and soldiers know this and draw the 
proper conclusions. 
Do you want to know what they are counting on? 
They are counting on ìopening the frontî and an ìarrangement 
with the Germans,î hoping to capture the 
war-weary soldiers with the idea of a separate peace and 
then march them against the revolution. 
The workers and soldiers will realize that these traitors 
at General Headquarters must be shown no mercy. 
The Conspiracy Continues. . . 
Events are moving quickly. Facts and rumours come 
thick and fast. There are rumours, as yet unconfirmed, 
that Kornilov is negotiating with the Germans. There is 
definite talk of a skirmish between Kornilov regiments 
and revolutionary soldiers near Petrograd. Kornilov has 
issued a ìmanifestoî proclaiming himself dictator, the 
enemy and gravedigger of the conquests of the Russian 
revolution. 
And the Provisional Government, instead of meeting 
the enemy as an enemy, prefers to confer with General 
Alexeyev and keeps on negotiating with Kornilov, keeps 
on pleading with the conspirators who are openly betraying 
Russia. 
And the so-called ìrevolutionary democracyî is preparing 
for another ìspecial conference on the lines of the

J. V. S T A L I N 286 
Moscow Conference, to be attended by representatives of 
all the virile forces of the countryî (see Izvestia). 
And at the same time the Cadets, who only yesterday 
were howling about a ìBolshevik plot,î are today 
disconcerted by the exposure of the Kornilov plot, and 
are appealing for ìcommon senseî and ìharmonyî (see 
Rech). 
Evidently they want to ìarrangeî another compromise 
with those ìvirile forcesî who, while howling 
about a Bolshevik plot, are themselves conspiring 
against the revolution and the Russian people. 
But the compromisers are reckoning without their 
host; for the real host in the country, the workers and 
soldiers, want no conferences with enemies of the revolution. 
The information coming in from the districts 
and regiments uniformly shows that the workers are mustering 
their forces, that the soldiers are standing ready 
to arms. The workers, apparently, prefer to talk with the 
enemy as an enemy. 
Nor could it be otherwise: you donít confer with enemies, 
you fight them. 
The conspiracy continues. Prepare to resist it! 
Rabochy, No. 5, 
2nd, special edition, 
August 28, 1917 
Editorial

AGAINST COMPROMISE 
WITH THE BOURGEOISIE 
The counter-revolution of the landlords and capitalists 
has been broken, but it has not yet been crushed. 
The Kornilov generals have been beaten, but the 
triumph of the revolution is not yet assured. 
Why? 
Because, instead of implacably fighting the enemy, 
the compromisers are negotiating with him. 
Because, instead of breaking with the landlords and 
capitalists, the defencists are arranging a compromise 
with them. 
Because, instead of outlawing them, the government 
is inviting them into the Cabinet. 
In South Russia, General Kaledin is raising a rebellion 
against the revolution, yet his friend, General 
Alexeyev, has been appointed Chief of Staff. 
In the capital of Russia, Milyukovís party is openly 
supporting counter-revolution, yet its representatives, 
the Maklakovs and Kishkins, are invited into the 
Cabinet. 
It is time to stop this crime against the revolution! 
It is time to say resolutely and irrevocably that 
enemies must be fought, not compromised with!

J. V. S T A L I N 288 
Against the landlords and capitalists, against the 
generals and bankers; for the interests of the peoples 
of Russia, for peace, for liberty, for land!óthat is our 
slogan. 
A break with the bourgeoisie and landlordsóthat is 
the first task. 
Formation of a government of workers and peasantsó 
that is the second task. 
Rabochy, No. 9, 
August 31, 1917 
Editorial

THE CRISIS AND THE DIRECTORY 
After the Kornilov conspiracy and the disintegration 
of the government, after the breakdown of the conspiracy 
and the formation of the Kerensky-Kishkin cabinet, 
after the ìnewî crisis and the ìnewî Tsereteli-Gotz negotiations 
with this same Kerensky, we have at last a 
ìnewî (brand new!) five-man government. 
A ìDirectoryî of five: Kerensky, Tereshchenko, Verkhovsky, 
Verderevsky and Nikitinósuch is the ìnewî 
government, ìchosenî by Kerensky, endorsed by Kerensky, 
responsible to Kerensky, and independent of the 
workers, peasants and soldiers. 
It is said that this government is independent, too, 
of the Cadets. But that is sheer nonsense, for the fact 
that there are no official representatives of the Cadets in 
the government is merely a camouflage for its complete 
dependence on the Cadets. 
Ostensibly, Kerensky the Socialist-Revolutionary is 
Supreme Commander. Actually, the General Staff, i.e., 
complete control of the front, has been put in the hands 
of General Alexeyev, a placeman of the Cadets. 
Ostensibly, the ìLeftî Directory is independent 
(no joke!) of the Cadets. Actually, the directors of

J. V. S T A L I N 290 
the Ministries, the men who really administer all the 
affairs of state, are placemen of the Cadets. 
Professedly, a rupture with the Cadets. In reality, 
an agreement with placemen of the Cadets in the rear and 
at the front. 
The Directory as a camouflage for an alliance with the 
Cadets, the dictatorship of Kerensky as a shield to 
protect the dictatorship of the landlords and capitalists 
from the anger of the peopleósuch is the picture today. 
And ahead lies another conference of representatives 
of the ìvirile forces,î at which Messieurs the Tseretelis 
and Avksentyevs, those inveterate compromisers, will 
strive to convert yesterdayís secret compromise with the 
Cadets into an open and explicit compromise, to the glee 
of the enemies of the workers and peasants. 
In the past six months our country has witnessed three 
acute crises of power. On each occasion the crisis was resolved 
by a compromise with the bourgeoisie, and on 
each occasion the workers and peasants were fooled. 
Why? 
Because on each occasion the petty-bourgeois parties, 
the Socialist-Revolutionaries and Mensheviks, intervened 
in the struggle for power, sided with the landlords 
and capitalists and decided the issue in favour of 
the Cadets. 
The Kornilov conspiracy thoroughly exposed the 
counter-revolutionary nature of the Cadets. For three days 
the defencists clamoured about the treachery of the Cadets; 
for three days they clamoured about the impracticability 
of a coalition which fell to pieces at the very 
first clash with the counter-revolution. And what do we 
find? After all this they could think of nothing better

THE CRISIS AND THE DIRECTORY 291 
to do than to accept a camouflaged coalition with the 
very Cadets whom they had been abusing. 
Only yesterday the defencist majority in the Central 
Executive Committee voted to ìsupportî the five-man 
Directory, the product of backstage compromises with 
the Cadets to the detriment of the fundamental interests 
of the workers and peasants. 
That day, when the crisis of power had become 
acute, when, with the smashing of Kornilov, the struggle 
for power had become intense, the Mensheviks and Socialist-
Revolutionaries once again helped the landlords and 
capitalists to retain power, once again helped the counter-
revolutionary Cadets to fool the workers and peasants. 
That, and that alone, is the political import of yesterdayís 
voting in the Central Executive Committee. 
Let the workers know this, let the peasants know it, 
and let them draw the appropriate conclusions. 
Todayís masked coalition is just as unstable as yesterdayís 
open coalitions: there can be no stable agreement 
between landlord and peasant, between capitalist and 
worker. And because of this the struggle for power, 
far from being ended, grows ever more intense and 
acute. 
Let the workers know that in this struggle they will 
inevitably suffer defeat so long as the Socialist-Revolutionaries 
and Mensheviks enjoy influence with the 
masses. 
Let the workers remember that in order to take power 
the peasant and soldier masses must be wrested from 
the compromisers, the Socialist-Revolutionaries and 
Mensheviks, and rallied around the revolutionary proletariat.

J. V. S T A L I N 292 
Let them remember that, and let them open the eyes 
of the peasants and soldiers by exposing the treachery 
of the Socialist-Revolutionaries and Mensheviks. 
An implacable struggle must be waged against the 
influence of the Socialist-Revolutionaries and Mensheviks 
on the masses, work must be carried on tirelessly 
to rally the peasants and soldiers around the banner of 
the party of the proletariatósuch is the lesson to be 
drawn from this recent crisis. 
Rabochy Put, No. 1, 
September 3, 1917 
Editorial

THEY WILL NOT SWERVE 
FROM THEIR PATH 
Marx attributed the weakness of the 1848 revolution 
in Germany among other things to the fact that there was 
no strong counter-revolution to spur on the revolution 
and to steel it in the fire of struggle. 
We, Russians, have no reason to complain in this 
respect, for we have a counter-revolution, and quite a substantial 
one. And the latest actions of the counter-revolutionary 
bourgeois and generals, and the answering tide of 
the revolutionary movement demonstrated very graphically 
that the revolution is growing and gaining 
strength precisely in battles with counter-revolution. 
In the heat of these battles the almost defunct Soviets 
and Committees, which were broken by the machinations 
of the bourgeoisie in July and August, have revived 
and are developing. 
It was on the shoulders of these organizations that the 
revolution was lifted to victory over the counter-revolution. 
Now that Kornilovism is retreating in disorder and 
Kerensky is unceremoniously appropriating the laurels of 
others, it has become particularly clear that had it not 
been for these organizationsóthe railwaymenís, soldiersí, 
sailorsí, peasantsí, workersí, post and telegraph and

J. V. S T A L I N 294 
other ìunauthorizedî Committeesóthat had it not been for 
their revolutionary initiative and independent militant 
action, the revolution would have been swept away. 
All the more reason is there, therefore, for treating 
these organizations with respect. All the more reason is 
there, therefore, for energetically carrying on our work 
of strengthening and expanding these organizations. Let 
these ìunauthorizedî Committees live and develop; let 
them be strong and victorious!ósuch should be the slogan 
of the friends of the revolution. 
Only enemies, only sworn enemies of the Russian 
people can raise their hand against the integrity of these 
organizations. 
Yet from the very outbreak of the counter-revolution 
the Kerensky government treated the ìunauthorizedî 
Committees as suspect. Unable and unwilling to fight 
Kornilovism, fearing the masses and the mass movement 
more than counter-revolution, from the very outbreak of 
the Kornilov revolt it put obstacles in the way of the 
Petrograd Peopleís Committee for Combating Counterrevolution. 
And it continued to sabotage the struggle 
against Kornilovism all along. 
But it has not stopped there. On September 4, the 
Kerensky government issued a special order declaring open 
war upon the revolutionary Committees and outlawing 
them. Qualifying the activities of these Committees as 
ìusurpation of authority,î it says that: 
ìunauthorized actions can no longer be tolerated, and the 
Provisional Government will combat them as usurpation of 
authority detrimental to the republic.î 
Kerensky has evidently forgotten that the ìDirectoryî 
has not yet been replaced by a ìConsulate,î and

THEY WILL NOT SWERVE FROM THEIR PATH 295 
that he is not First Consul of the Republic of 
Russia. 
Kerensky evidently does not know that between the 
ìDirectoryî and the ìConsulateî there was a coup 
díÈtat, which had to be effected before orders like these 
could be issued. 
Kerensky does not realize that to combat the ìusurpatoryî 
Committees in the rear and at the front he would 
have to rely upon the backing of the Kaledins and Kornilovs, 
and upon them alone. At all events, he would do 
well to remember their fate. . . . 
We are confident that the revolutionary Committees 
will worthily parry this attempt of Kerenskyís to stab 
them in the back. 
We are firmly convinced that the revolutionary Committees 
will not swerve from their path. 
And if the paths of the ìDirectoryî and of the revolutionary 
Committees have definitely diverged, so much 
the worse for the ìDirectory.î 
The counter-revolutionary danger is not yet over. 
Long live the revolutionary Committees! 
Rabochy Put, No. 3, 
September 6, 1917 
Editorial

THE BREAK WITH THE CADETS 
The Kornilov revolt had not only a bad side; like 
everything in life it also had a good side. The Kornilov 
revolt was an attempt on the very life of the revolution. 
That is unquestionable. But in attempting to kill 
the revolution and stirring all the forces of society 
into motion, it thereby, on the one hand, gave a spur 
to the revolution, stimulated it to greater activity and 
organization, and, on the other, revealed the true nature 
of the classes and parties, tore the mask from their 
faces and gave us a glimpse of their true countenances. 
We owe it to the Kornilov revolt that the almost 
defunct Soviets in the rear and the Committees at the 
front instantaneously sprang to life again and became 
active. 
We owe it to the Kornilov revolt that everybody is 
now talking about the counter-revolutionary nature of 
the Cadets, not excluding those who only yesterday were 
ìconvulsivelyî seeking agreement with them. 
It is a fact that, ìafter all that has happened,î even 
the Socialist-Revolutionaries and Mensheviks no longer 
consider coalition with the Cadets permissible.

THE BREAK WITH THE CADETS 297 
It is a fact that even the five-man ìDirectoryî set up 
by Kerensky had to dispense with official representatives 
of the Cadets. 
One would think that breaking with the Cadets had 
become a commandment with the ìdemocraticî parties. 
That has been the good side of the Kornilov 
revolt. 
But what does breaking with the Cadets imply? 
Let us assume that the Socialist-Revolutionaries and 
Mensheviks have broken ìfinallyî with the Cadets, as 
members of a definite party. But does that mean that 
they have broken with the policy of the Cadets, as representatives 
of the imperialist bourgeoisie? 
No, it does not. 
Let us assume that at the Democratic Conference 
which is to open on September 12 the defencists form a 
new government without the Cadets and that Kerensky 
submits to the decision. Will that mean that they will 
have broken with the policy of the Cadets, as representatives 
of the imperialist bourgeoisie? 
No, it will not. 
The French imperialist republic provides numerous 
examples of how the representatives of capital, while 
remaining out of the cabinet themselves, ìadmitî pettybourgeois 
ìSocialistsî to it, so that they themselves 
might operate behind the scene and through the hand 
of others, and plunder the country without let or hindrance. 
We know from history how the financial bosses 
of France, by appointing ìSocialistsî (Briand! Viviani!) 
to the head of cabinets, while themselves hiding behind 
their backs, have successfully carried out the policy of 
their class.

J. V. S T A L I N 298 
It is quite possible to conceive the existence in Russia, 
too, of a non-Cadet cabinet which would consider it necessary 
to pursue a Cadet policy as the only possible one, 
owing, say, to the pressure of Allied capital, of which 
Russia is becoming a tributary, or to other circumstances. 
Needless to say, if the worst came to the worst, the 
Cadets would not object to such a government; for, 
after all, does it make any difference who carries out the 
Cadet policy, so long as it is carried out? 
Obviously, what matters is not the personal composition 
of the government, but its policy. 
Therefore, whoever wants to break with the Cadets 
really, and not only ostensibly, must first of all break 
with the policy of the Cadets. 
But breaking with the policy of the Cadets means 
breaking with the landlords and handing over their land 
to the Peasant Committees, regardless of the fact that 
such a measure would be a severe blow to certain allpowerful 
banks. 
Breaking with the policy of the Cadets means breaking 
with the capitalists and establishing workersí control 
over production and distribution, regardless of the fact 
that it would mean encroaching on capitalist profits. 
Breaking with the policy of the Cadets means breaking 
with the predatory war and the secret treaties, regardless 
of the fact that this measure would be a severe 
blow to the Allied imperialist cliques. 
Are the Mensheviks and Socialist-Revolutionaries capable 
of such a break with the Cadets? 
No, they are not. For if they were, they would cease 
to be defencists, that is, advocates of war at the front and 
of class peace in the rear.

THE BREAK WITH THE CADETS 299 
That being the case, what does the incessant clamour 
of the Mensheviks and Socialist-Revolutionaries about 
having broken with the Cadets amount to? 
To a verbal break with the Cadetsónothing 
more! 
The fact of the matter is that after the collapse of the 
Kornilov conspiracy and the exposure of the counterrevolutionary 
nature of Milyukovís party, open agreement 
with that party has become extremely unpopular 
among the workers and soldiers: the Mensheviks and 
Socialist-Revolutionaries have only to enter into such 
an agreement and they will lose the last remnants of 
their former army in a twinkling. Therefore, instead of an 
open agreement they are compelled to resort to a masked 
one. Hence their clamour about having broken with the 
Cadets, which is intended to cover up the backstage 
agreement they have made with the Cadets. For appearanceís 
sakeódown with the Cadets! Actuallyóalliance 
with the Cadets! For appearanceís sakeóa government 
without the Cadets! Actuallyóa government for the Cadets, 
home and Allied, who dictate their will to ìthe 
powers that be.î 
But it follows from this that Russia has entered a period 
of political development in which open agreement 
with the imperialist bourgeoisie is becoming a risky business. 
We are now in a period of governments of socialdefencist, 
non-Cadet composition, whose mission it is, 
nevertheless, to carry out the will of the imperialist bourgeoisie. 
The ìDirectoryî which appeared on the scene the 
other day was the first attempt to create such a government

J. V. S T A L I N 300 
It is to be anticipated that the conference appointed 
for September 12 will, if it does not end in a farce, attempt 
to create a similar, and presumably ìmore Leftî 
government. 
It is the duty of the advanced workers to tear the 
mask from these non-Cadet governments and expose their 
real Cadet nature to the masses. 
Rabochy Put, No. 3, 
September 6, 1917 
Signed: K. St.

THE SECOND WAVE 
The first wave of the Russian revolution began as a 
struggle against tsarism. The workers and soldiers were 
at that time the main forces of the revolution. But they 
were not the only forces. Besides them, bourgeois liberals 
(Cadets) and the British and French capitalists were 
also ìactive,î the former having turned their backs on 
tsarism because of its inability to drive a road to Constantinople, 
and the latter having betrayed it because of 
tsarismís desire for a separate peace with Germany. 
There thus arose something in the nature of a concealed 
coalition, under whose pressure tsarism was compelled 
to quit the stage. On the day following the fall of 
tsarism, the secret coalition became an open one, having 
assumed the form of a definite agreement between the 
Provisional Government and the Petrograd Soviet, between 
the Cadets and the ìrevolutionary democracy.î 
But these forces pursued entirely different aims. 
Whereas the Cadets and the British and French capitalists 
merely wanted to make a little revolution in order to exploit 
the revolutionary enthusiasm of the masses for the 
purposes of a big imperialist war, the workers and soldiers, 
on the contrary, were striving for the complete 
break-up of the old regime and the full triumph of a great

J. V. S T A L I N 302 
revolution, in order, by overthrowing the landlords and 
curbing the imperialist bourgeoisie, to secure the cessation 
of the war and ensure a just peace. 
This fundamental contradiction underlay the further 
development of the revolution. It also predetermined 
the instability of the coalition with the Cadets. 
All the so-called crises of power, including the 
most recent, the one in August, were manifestations of 
this contradiction. 
And if in the course of these crises success always 
proved to be with the imperialist bourgeoisie, and if after 
the ìsolutionî of each crisis the workers and soldiers 
proved to have been deceived, and the coalition was 
preserved in one form or another, that was not only because 
of the high degree of organization and the financial 
power of the imperialist bourgeoisie, but also becausethe 
vacillating upper sections of the petty bourgeoisie 
and their parties, the Socialist-Revolutionaries and Mensheviksó
which still had the following of the broad 
mass of the petty bourgeoisie in our generally pettybourgeois 
countryóon each occasion took their stand 
ìon the other side of the barricadesî and decided the 
struggle for power in favour of the Cadets. 
The coalition with the Cadets attained its greatest 
strength in the July days, when the members of the 
coalition formed a united battle front and turned their 
weapons against the ìBolshevikî workers and soldiers. 
In this respect the Moscow Conference was merely an 
echo of the July days. The non-admission of the Bolsheviks 
to the conference was to have been a necessary surety 
for the cementing of the ìhonest coalitionî with the 
ìvirile forcesî of the country, inasmuch as the isolation

THE SECOND WAVE 303 
of the Bolsheviks was regarded as an essential condition 
for the stability of the coalition with the Cadets. 
Such was the situation down to the Kornilov revolt. 
Kornilovís action changed the picture. 
It was already clear at the Moscow Conference that 
the alliance with the Cadets was threatening to become 
an alliance with the Kornilovs and Kaledins against . . . 
not only the Bolsheviks, but the entire Russian revolution, 
against the very existence of the gains of the revolution. 
The boycott of the Moscow Conference and the protest 
strike of the Moscow workers, which unmasked the 
counter-revolutionary conclave and thwarted the plans of 
the conspirators, was not only a warning in this respect; 
it was also a call to be prepared. We know that the call 
was not a voice crying in the wilderness, that a number of 
cities responded immediately with protest strikes. . . . 
That was an ominous portent. 
The Kornilov revolt only opened the floodgates for the 
accumulated revolutionary indignation; it only released 
the temporarily shackled revolution, spurred it on and 
impelled it forward. 
And here, in the fire of battle against the counter-revolutionary 
forces, in which words and promises are tested 
by actual deeds in the direct struggle, it became revealed 
who really were the friends and who the enemies of the 
revolution, who really were the allies and who the betrayers 
of the workers, peasants and soldiers. 
The Provisional Government, so painstakingly 
stitched together from heterogeneous materials, burst at 
the seams at the very first breath of the Kornilov revolt. 
It is ìsad,î but true: the coalition looks like a force 
when it is a matter of talking about ìsaving the

J. V. S T A L I N 304 
revolution,î but turns out to be a squib when it is a 
matter of really saving the revolution from mortal 
danger. 
The Cadets resigned from the government and openly 
demonstrated their solidarity with the Kornilovites. The 
imperialists of all shades and degrees, the bankers and 
manufacturers, the factory owners and profiteers, the 
landlords and generals, the pen pirates of Novoye Vremya 
and the cowardly provocateurs of Birzhovka were all, 
with the Cadet Party at their head and in alliance with 
the British and French imperialist cliques, found to be 
in one camp with the counter-revolutionariesóagainst the 
revolution and its conquests. 
It became manifest that alliance with the Cadets 
meant alliance with the landlords against the peasants, 
with the capitalists against the workers, with the generals 
against the soldiers. 
It became manifest that whoever compromised with 
Milyukov compromised with Kornilov and must come 
out against the revolution, for Milyukov and Kornilov 
ìare one.î 
A vague inkling of this truth was the underlying 
reason for the new mass revolutionary movement, for 
the second wave of the Russian revolution. 
And if the first wave ended with the triumph of the 
coalition with the Cadets (the Moscow Conference!), the 
second began with the collapse of this coalition, with 
open war against the Cadets. 
In the struggle against the counter-revolution of the 
generals and Cadets the almost defunct Soviets and Committees 
in the rear and at the front are coming to life 
again and growing in strength.

THE SECOND WAVE 305 
In the struggle against the counter-revolution of the 
generals and Cadets new revolutionary Committees of 
workers and soldiers, sailors and peasants, railwaymen 
and post and telegraph employees are coming into being. 
In the fires of this struggle new local organs of 
power are arising in Moscow and the Caucasus, in 
Petrograd and the Urals, in Odessa and Kharkov. 
The reason is not the new resolutions passed by Socialist-
Revolutionaries and Mensheviks, who have undoubtedly 
moved towards the Left in these past few daysó 
although this, of course, is of no little importance. 
Nor is the reason the ìvictory of Bolshevism,î with 
the spectre of which the bourgeois press is browbeating 
the scared philistines of Dyen and Volya Naroda. 
The reason is that in the struggle against the Cadets, 
and in spite of them, a new power is arising, which has 
defeated the forces of counter-revolution in open battle. 
The reason is that, passing from the defensive to the 
offensive, this new power is inevitably encroaching 
upon the vital interests of the landlords and capitalists, 
and is thereby rallying around itself the worker and 
peasant masses. 
The reason is that, acting in this way, this ìunrecognizedî 
power is compelled by force of circumstances to 
raise the question of its ìlegalization,î while the ìofficialî 
power, which has betrayed a manifest kinship with the 
counter-revolutionary conspirators, turns out to have 
no firm ground under its feet. 
And the reason, lastly, is that in the face of this new 
wave of revolution, which is rapidly spreading to new 
cities and regions, the Kerensky government, which yesterday 
was still afraid to give decisive battle to the Kornilov

J. V. S T A L I N 306 
counter-revolution, is today uniting with Kornilov and the 
Kornilovites in the rear and at the front, and at the same 
time ìorderingî the dissolution of the centres of revolution, 
the ìunauthorizedî workersí, soldiersí and 
peasantsí Committees. 
And the more thoroughly Kerensky links himself 
with the Kornilovs and Kaledins, the wider grows 
the rift between the people and the government, the 
more probable becomes a rupture between the Soviets 
and the Provisional Government. 
It is these facts, and not the resolutions of individual 
parties, that pronounce the death sentence on the 
old compromising slogans. 
We are by no means inclined to overrate the extent of 
the rupture with the Cadets. We know that that rupture 
is still only a formal one. But for a start, even such a 
rupture is a big step forward. It is to be presumed that 
the Cadets themselves will do the rest. They are already 
boycotting the Democratic Conference. The representatives 
of trade and industry, whom the cunning strategists 
of the Central Executive Committee wanted to 
ìentice into their net,î are following in the footsteps of 
the Cadets. It is to be presumed that they will go further 
and continue to close down mills and factories, refuse 
credits to the organs of ìthe democracyî and deliberately 
aggravate the economic disruption and food scarcity. 
And ìthe democracy,î in its efforts to overcome the 
economic disruption and food scarcity, will inevitably be 
drawn into a resolute struggle with the bourgeoisie 
and will widen its rupture with the Cadets. . . . 
Seen in this perspective and in this connection, the 
Democratic Conference convened for September 12 is

THE SECOND WAVE 307 
particularly symptomatic. What its outcome will be, 
whether it will ìtakeî power, whether Kerensky will 
ìyieldî all these are questions which cannot be answered 
yet. The initiators of the conference may possibly 
try to find some cunning ìcompromiseî formula. But that, 
of course, is of no significance. Fundamental questions 
of revolution, the question of power in particular, are not 
settled at conferences. But one thing is certain, and that 
is that the conference will be a summing up of the events 
of the past few days, will provide a computation of forces, 
will disclose the difference between the first, already receded, 
wave and the second, advancing wave of the Russian 
revolution. 
And we shall learn that: 
Then, at the time of the first wave, the fight was 
against tsarism and its survivals. Now, at the time of the 
second wave, the fight is against the landlords and capitalists. 
Thenóan alliance with the Cadets. Nowóa rupture 
with them. 
Thenóthe isolation of the Bolsheviks. Nowóthe isolation 
of the Cadets. 
Thenóan alliance-with British and French capital, 
and war. Nowóa ripening rupture with it, and peace, 
a just and general peace. 
That, and that alone, will be the course of the second 
wave of the revolution, no matter what the Democratic 
Conference may decide. 
Rabochy Put, No. 6. 
September 9, 1917 
Signed: K. Stalin

FOREIGNERS AND THE KORNILOV 
CONSPIRACY 
In connection with the Kornilov conspiracy a mass 
exodus of foreigners from Russia is lately to be observed. 
The bourgeois press hacks seek to suggest a connection 
between this phenomenon and ìrumours of peaceî 
or even the ìtriumph of Bolshevismî in Petrograd and 
Moscow. But this blatant and shallow stratagem of the 
yellow press is designed to conceal from the reader the 
real reason for the exodus. The real reason is the undeniable 
fact that certain foreigners were implicated in 
the Kornilov conspiracy, and now these brave gentry are 
wisely seeking to escape being called to account. 
It is known that the armoured cars which escorted the 
ìSavage Divisionî to Petrograd were manned by foreigners. 
It is known that certain representatives of the embassies 
at General Headquarters not only knew of the Kornilov 
conspiracy, but helped Kornilov in hatching i t . 
It is known that the adventurer Aladin, agent of 
The Times and the imperialist clique in London, who on 
his arrival from England went straight to the Moscow 
Conference and then ìproceededî to General Headquarters, 
was the moving spirit and the first fiddle of the Kornilov 
revolt. 
It is known that already in June a certain prominent 
representative of the most prominent embassy in Russia

FOREIGNERS AND THE KORNILOV CONSPIRACY 309 
definitely associated himself with the counter-revolulionary 
machinations of Kaledin and the others, and 
backed his association with substantial subsidies out of 
he funds of his patrons. 
It is known that The Times and Le Temps78 did not 
conceal their displeasure at the failure of the Kornilov 
revolt and abused and vilified the revolutionary Committees 
and Soviets. 
It is known that the Provisional Governmentís commissars 
at the front were constrained to issue a definite 
warning to certain foreigners who were behaving in 
Russia like Europeans in Central Africa. 
It is known that it was owing to such ìmeasuresî 
that the mass exodus of foreigners began, and that the 
Russian authorities, not desiring to allow valuable ìwitnessesî 
to slip from their hands, were obliged to take 
measures against the exodus, and that Buchanan (Buchanan 
himself!), evidently fearing exposure, took ìmeasuresî 
in his turn and recommended members of the 
British colony to leave Russia. Buchanan now ìcategorically 
deniesî the ìrumoursî that all the members of 
the British colony in Petrograd were recommended by 
the British ambassador to leave Russia (see Rech). But, 
in the first place, this strange ìdenialî only corroborates 
the ìrumours.î Secondly, what good are these false ìdenialsî 
now that some of the foreigners (not ìall,î but 
some of them!) have already leftóslipped away? 
All that, we repeat, is old and stale. 
Even the ìdumb stonesî are crying it. 
And if, after all that, certain ìgovernment circles,î 
and especially the bourgeois press, are trying to hush up 
the matter by putting the ìblameî on the Bolsheviks,

J. V. S T A L I N 310 
that is a sure sign that those ìcirclesî and that press ìin 
their heart of heartsî fully sympathize with the counterrevolutionary 
schemes of ìcertain foreigners.î 
Listen to what Dyen, organ of ìsocialist thought,î 
has to say: 
ìIn connection with the mass exodus of foreignersóFrench 
and Britishófrom Russia i t is regretfully remarked in Provisional 
Government circles that it is not surprising that foreigners 
prefer, in view of the unstable situation in the country, not to 
incur the risk of unpleasantness. Unfortunately, there is some 
basis for the assertion that in the event of the complete triumph 
of the Bolsheviks the representatives of foreign powers will prefer 
to leave Russiaî (Dyen, September 10). 
So writes the organ of the philistines who are scared 
by the spectre of Bolshevism. 
So ìremark,î and, moreover, ìregretfully remark,î 
certain anonymous ìcirclesî of the Provisional Government. 
There can be no doubt whatever that the yellow elements 
of all countries are uniting and plotting against 
the Russian revolution, that the hacks of the bankersí 
press are trying to justify that ìworkî with vociferous 
and mendacious talk about a ìBolshevik danger,î and 
that anonymous government ìcircles,î in obedience 
to the behest of the British and French imperialists, 
hypocritically point a finger at the Bolsheviks and clumsily 
endeavour to justify the absconding criminals by 
falsely prating about the ìunstable situationî in Russia. 
What a picture! . . . 
Rabochy Put, No. 8, 
September 12, 1917 
Signed: K.

THE DEMOCRATIC CONFERENCE 
The Democratic Conference opens today. 
We shall not stop to discuss why a conference, and not 
a Congress of Soviets was convened. There can be no denying 
that in appealing at a difficult moment of history 
not to a Congress of Soviets, but to a conference in which 
bourgeois elements participate, the Central Executive 
Committee, which was elected by a Congress of Soviets, 
is guilty not only of a gross breach of formality, but also 
of an impermissible substitution of the will of the antirevolutionary 
classes for the will of the revolutionary 
classes. It was obviously the ìideaî of the leaders of the 
Central Executive Committee to bring in the propertied 
elements at all costs. . . . 
Nor shall we stop to discuss why a number of workersí 
and soldiersí Soviets, which defeated the forces of counter-
revolution in open combat, have been denied a voice 
at a conference which has been convened to decide the 
question of power, while propertied elements who directly 
or indirectly supported the counter-revolutionaries 
have been allowed a voice. It has generally been the case 
in the history of revolutions that the bourgeoisie gladly 
allowed the workers and peasants to fight singlehanded, 
at their own risk, but always took measures to prevent the

J. V. S T A L I N 312 
victorious workers and peasants from enjoying the fruits 
of their victory and assuming power themselves. We did 
not think that the Central Executive Committee would 
completely disgrace itself by following the example of 
the bourgeoisie in this respect. . . . 
Quite naturally, a number of workersí and soldiersí 
local organizations, in the rear and at the front, in 
Central Russia and Kharkov, in the Donets Basin and 
Siberia, in Samara and Dvinsk, vehemently protested 
against this outrageous violation of the rights of the 
revolution. 
But, we repeat, we shall not stop to discuss this. Let 
us pass to the chief point: 
The conference has been convened to define the conditions 
necessary for the ìorganization of the revolutionary 
power.î 
Well, then, how is power to be organized? 
Undoubtedly, you can only organize what you possessó
you canít organize power when it is in the 
hands of others. A conference that undertakes to organize 
power which it does not possess, power which is concentrated 
in the hands of Kerensky, and which Kerensky 
has once already launched against the ìSoviets and the 
Bolsheviksî in Petrogradósuch a conference must find 
itself in the most idiotic predicament at the first attempt 
it makes to pass from word to deed. 
For one thing or the other: 
Either the conference really does ìtakeî power, come 
what mayóin which case it can, and must, discuss 
the organization of the revolutionary power it has won. 
Or the conference does not ìtakeî power, does not 
break with Kerenskyóin which case discussing the organ

THE DEMOCRATIC CONFERENCE 313 
ization of power must inevitably degenerate into empty 
prattling. 
But let us assumeólet us assume for a momentó 
that by some miracle power has been taken and all 
that remains is to organize it. Well, then, how is it to 
be organized? On what basis is it to be constructed? 
ìOn the basis of a coalition with the bourgeoisie!î 
answer the Avksentyevs and Tseretelis in chorus. 
ìWithout a coalition with the bourgeoisie there can 
be no salvation!î cry Dyen, Volya Naroda and the other 
echoers of the imperialist bourgeoisie. 
But we have already had six months of coalition with 
the bourgeoisie. What has it given us, except greater disruption 
and the torments of hunger, prolongation of the 
war and economic disintegration, four crises of power 
and the Kornilov revolt, exhaustion of the country and 
financial subjection to the West? 
Is that not enough for Messieurs the compromisers? 
They talk about the strength and might of coalition, 
about ìbroadening the basisî of the revolution and so on. 
But why did the coalition with the bourgeoisie, the coalition 
with the Cadets, vanish like smoke at the first breath 
of the Kornilov revolt? Did not the Cadets desert the 
government? Where, then, does the ìstrengthî of coalition 
and ìbroadening the basisî of the revolution come in? 
Will Messieurs the compromisers ever realize that it is 
impossible to ìsave the revolutionî by an alliance with 
deserters? 
Who was it that upheld the revolution and its conquests 
at the time of the Kornilov revolt? 
Was it, perhaps, the ìbourgeois liberalsî? But they 
were in one camp with the Kornilovites against the

J. V. S T A L I N 314 
revolution and its Committees. Milyukov and Maklakov 
are now saying so openly. 
Or was it the ìmerchant and industrial classesî? But 
they, too, were in one camp with Kornilov. Guchkov, 
Ryabushinsky and the other ìpublic menî who were at 
that time at Kornilovís headquarters now say so openly. 
Will Messieurs the compromisers ever realize that coalition 
with the bourgeoisie means an alliance with the 
Kornilovs and Lukomskys? 
People are talking about the growing disruption of industry, 
and facts are cited which convict the lockout 
capitalists of deliberately curtailing production. . . . People 
are talking about the shortage of raw materials, and 
facts are cited which convict the profiteering merchants 
of concealing cotton, coal, etc. . . . People are talking 
about the starvation in the cities, and facts are cited which 
convict the speculating banks of artificially holding back 
supplies of grain. . . . Will Messieurs the compromisers 
ever realize that coalition with the bourgeoisie, coalition 
with the propertied elements, means an alliance with 
swindlers and profiteers, an alliance with marauders and 
lockout capitalists? 
Is it not self-evident that only by combating the landlords 
and capitalists, only by combating the imperialists 
of all brands, only by combating and vanquishing them, 
can the country be saved from starvation and disruption, 
from economic exhaustion and financial bankruptcy, 
from disintegration and degeneration? 
And since the Soviets and Committees have proved 
to be the main bulwarks of the revolution, since the 
Soviets and Committees quelled the counter-revolutionary 
revolt, is it not obvious that they, and they alone, should

THE DEMOCRATIC CONFERENCE 315 
now be the chief repositories of revolutionary power in 
the country? 
How is the revolutionary power to be organized, 
you ask? 
But it is already being organizedóapart from the 
conference and perhaps in defiance of the conferenceóin 
the course of the struggle against counter-revolution, on 
the basis of an actual break with the bourgeoisie and in a 
fight against the bourgeoisie. It is being organized from 
revolutionary workers, peasants and soldiers. 
The elements of this power are the revolutionary 
Committees and Soviets in the rear and at the front. 
The embryo of this power is that Left wing which, 
presumably, will take shape at the conference. 
The conference will have to sanction and complete 
this process of establishing a revolutionary power, or else 
put itself at the mercy of Kerensky and depart from 
the scene. 
The Central Executive Committee already attempted 
to take the revolutionary road yesterday by rejecting a 
coalition with the Cadets. 
But the Cadets are the only bourgeois party of weight. 
Will Messieurs the compromisers realize that there are 
no other bourgeois circles with which to form a coalition? 
Will they have the courage to make the choice? 
We shall see. 
Rabochy Put, No. 10, 
September 14, 1917 
Editorial

TWO LINES 
The fundamental question of a revolution is the 
question of power. The character of a revolution, its 
course and outcome wholly depend upon who wields 
power, upon which class is in power. What is called 
a crisis of power is nothing but an outward manifestation 
of a struggle of classes for power. A revolutionary 
epoch, indeed, is remarkable for the fact that 
in it the struggle for power assumes its most acute and 
naked form. That explains our ìchronicî crisis of 
power, which is being still further aggravated by war, 
disruption and famine. That explains the ìastonishingî 
fact that not a single ìconferenceî or ìcongressî can be 
held nowadays without the question of power inevitably 
arising. 
And it arose, inevitably, at the Democratic Conference 
in the Alexandrinsky Theatre. 
Two lines on the question of power have been revealed 
at the conference. 
The first line is that of open coalition with the Cadet 
Party. It is advocated by the Menshevik and Socialist- 
Revolutionary defencists. It was urged at the conference 
by that inveterate compromiser, Tsereteli.

TWO LINES 317 
The second line is that of a radical break with 
the Cadet Party. It is advocated by our Party and 
the internationalists in the Socialist-Revolutionary and 
Menshevik parties. It was urged at the conference by 
Kamenev. 
The first line leads to the establishment of the power 
of the imperialist bourgeoisie over the people. For our 
experience of coalition governments has shown that 
coalition with the Cadets means the rule of the landlord 
over the peasant who is not being given land; the 
rule of the capitalist over the worker who is being 
doomed to unemployment; the rule of a minority 
over the majority, which is being condemned to be 
devoured by war and economic disruption, starvation 
and ruin. 
The second line leads to the establishment of the power 
of the people over the landlords and capitalists. For 
breaking with the Cadet Party in fact means ensuring 
land to the peasants, control to the workers, and a just 
peace to the toiling majority. 
The first line is an expression of confidence in the 
present government, and would leave the entire power 
in its hands. 
The second line is an expression of no confidence in 
the government, and calls for the transfer of power to 
the direct representatives of the workersí, peasantsí, 
and soldiersí Soviets. 
There are people who dream of reconciling these 
two irreconcilable lines. One of them i s Chernov, 
who at the conference came out against the Cadets, 
but in favour of a coalition with the capitalists, 
if (!) the capitalists renounced (!) their own interests.

J. V. S T A L I N 318 
The intrinsic falsity of Chernovís ìpositionî is selfevident; 
but the important thing is not that it is selfcontradictory, 
but that it surreptitiously smuggles in 
Tsereteliís rubbish about coalition with the Cadet Party. 
For it would give Kerensky a free hand, ìacting on 
the platform of the conference,î to ìenlargeî the government 
with diverse Buryshkins and Kishkins, who are prepared 
to put their name to any platform without any intention 
of carrying it out. 
For this false ìpositionî would help Kerensky in his 
fight against the Soviets and Committees by placing a 
weapon in his hand in the shape of an advisory ìPreparliament.î 
Chernovís ìlineî is the same line as Tsereteliís, only 
ìcunninglyî masked in order to ensnare simpletons in 
the ìcoalitionî trap. 
There are grounds for believing that the conference 
will follow Chernovís lead. 
But the conference is not the court of highest instance. 
The two lines we have described only reflect what exists 
in actual fact. And in actual fact we have not one power, 
but two: the official power, the Directory, and the 
unofficial power, the Soviets and Committees. 
The struggle between these two powersóalthough 
still muffled and unrealizedóis the characteristic feature 
of the moment. 
The conference is evidently intended to be the makeweight 
which will tip the scales in favour of the power 
of the Directory. 
But let Messieurs the compromisers, overt and covert, 
know that whoever supports the Directory helps to

TWO LINES 319 
establish the power of the bourgeoisie and must inevitably 
come into conflict with the worker and soldier 
masses, must come out in opposition to the Soviets and 
Committees. 
Messieurs the compromisers cannot but know that it 
is the revolutionary Committees and Soviets that will 
have the last word. 
Rabochy Put, No. 12, 
September 16, 1917 
Editorial

ALL POWER TO THE SOVIETS! 
The revolution is marching on. Fired upon in the 
July days and ìburiedî at the Moscow Conference, it is 
rising again, breaking down the old barriers and creating 
a new power. The first line of counter-revolutionary 
trenches has been captured. After Kornilov, Kaledin 
too is retreating. In the fire of battle the almost defunct 
Soviets are reviving. They are taking their place at 
the helm again and leading the revolutionary masses. 
All power to the Soviets!ósuch is the slogan of the 
new movement. 
The Kerensky government is taking up arms against 
the new movement. At the very start of the Kornilov 
revolt it threatened to dissolve the revolutionary Committees 
and qualified the fight against Kornilovism as 
ìusurpation of authority.î Since then the fight against 
the Committees has grown steadily fiercer and has now 
passed into open war. 
The Simferopol Soviet arrests one of the Kornilov conspirators, 
the not unnotorious Ryabushinsky. And in retaliation, 
the Kerensky government orders that ìmeasures 
be taken to release Ryabushinsky and that the 
persons responsible for his illegal arrest be brought to 
accountî (Rech).

ALL POWER TO THE SOVIETS 321 
In Tashkent all authority passes to the Soviet and the 
old authorities are deposed. And, in retaliation, the Kerensky 
government ìis adopting a number of measures, 
which are being kept secret for the present, but which 
should have a most sobering effect on the presumptuous 
leaders of the Tashkent Soviet of Workersí and Soldiersí 
Deputiesî (Russkiye Vedomosti). 
The Soviets demand a strict and thorough investigation 
of the affair of Kornilov and his accomplices. And, 
in retaliation, the Kerensky government is ìnarrowing 
down the investigation to an insignificant circle of 
individuals, and is ignoring certain very important 
evidence which would furnish grounds for qualifying 
Kornilovís crime as betrayal of the country, and 
not only as a revoltî (Shubnikovís report, Novaya 
Zhizn). 
The Soviets demand a break with the bourgeoisie and 
primarily with the Cadets. And, in retaliation, the 
Kerensky government negotiates with the Kishkins 
and Konovalovs, invites them into the government and 
proclaims the governmentís ìindependenceî of the 
Soviets. 
All power to the imperialist bourgeoisie!ósuch is the 
slogan of the Kerensky government. 
There is no room for doubt. What we have is two 
powers: the power of Kerensky and his government, and 
the power of the Soviets and Committees. 
It is a struggle between these two powers which 
is the characteristic feature of the present moment. 
Either the power of the Kerensky governmentówhich 
means the rule of the landlords and capitalists, war and 
economic disruption.

J. V. S T A L I N 322 
Or the power of the Sovietsówhich will mean the 
rule of the workers and peasants, peace and an end to the 
economic disruption. 
That is the way, and the only way, that the question 
is posed by the realities of the situation. 
This question was raised by the revolution at each 
crisis of power. And every time Messieurs the compromisers 
evaded a straight answer, and, by evading 
it, surrendered the power to the enemy. By convening 
a conference instead of a Congress of Soviets, the compromisers 
wanted again to evade it and surrender the 
power to the bourgeoisie. But they have miscalculated. 
A time has come when evasion is no longer possible. 
The straight question posed by the realities demands 
a clear and definite answer. 
For the Soviets, or against them? 
Let Messieurs the compromisers choose. 
Rabochy Put, No. 13, 
September 17, 1917 
Editorial

THE REVOLUTIONARY FRONT 
The Socialist-Revolutionaries of Delo Naroda are 
displeased with the Bolsheviks. They abuse the Bolsheviks, 
they slander the Bolsheviks, they even threaten 
the Bolsheviks. For what? For their ìunrestrained 
demagogy,î their ìfactional sectarianism,î their 
ìschismatic activity,î their lack of ìrevolutionary discipline.î 
In brief, for the fact that the Bolsheviks are 
opposed to unity with the Socialist-Revolutionaries of 
Delo Naroda. 
Unity with the Socialist-Revolutionaries of Delo 
Naroda! . . . But, frankly, is such unity possible now? 
At a time when the Democratic Conference in Petrograd 
is exhausting itself in futile debates and its initiators 
are hastily concocting formulas for the ìsalvationî of 
the revolution, while the Kerensky government, with 
the encouragement of Buchanan and Milyukov, continues 
to go ìits ownî way, a decisive process is taking 
place in Russiaóthe growth of a new power, a genuinely 
popular and genuinely revolutionary power, 
which is waging a desperate struggle for existence. On 
the one hand there are the Soviets, which stand at the 
head of the revolution, at the head of the fight against 
counter-revolution, which is not yet smashed, which has

J. V. S T A L I N 324 
only retreated, and is wisely hiding behind the back of 
the government. On the other hand there is the Kerensky 
government, which is shielding the counter-revolutionaries, 
is coming to terms with the Kornilovites (the 
Cadets!), has declared war on the Soviets, and is trying 
to crush them in order not to be crushed itself. 
Who will triumph in this struggle? That is the whole 
point just now. 
Either the Soviets have the poweróand that will 
mean the victory of the revolution and a just peace. 
Or the Kerensky government has the powerówhich 
will mean the victory of the counter-revolution and 
ìwar to a finishîóthe finish of Russia. 
The conference, without deciding the issue, is only 
reflecting this struggle, and, of course, very belatedly. 
That is why the main thing now is not to elaborate 
general formulas for the ìsalvationî of the revolution, 
but to give direct support to the Soviets in their struggle 
against the Kerensky government. 
You want a united revolutionary front? Well, then, 
support the Soviets, break with the Kerensky government, 
and unity will come of itself. A united front is 
formed not as a result of debates, but in the process 
of struggle. 
The Soviets demand the dismissal of the Cadet commissars. 
But the Kerensky government is foisting these 
unwanted commissars upon them and is threatening to 
resort to force. . . . 
On whose side are you, citizens of Delo Naroda? 
On the side of the Soviets or of Kerenskyís commissars? 
In Tashkent the Soviet, in which the Socialist- 
Revolutionaries constitute the majority, has taken over

THE REVOLUTIONARY FRONT 325 
power and dismissed the old officials. But the Kerensky 
government is sending a punitive expedition to Tashkent 
and is demanding the restoration of the old authority, 
ìpunishmentî of the Soviet and so on. . . . 
On whose side are you, citizens of Delo Naroda? 
On the side of the Tashkent Soviet or of Kerenskyís 
punitive expedition? 
There is no reply. For we have not heard of a single 
protest, of a single act of opposition on the part of the 
followers of Delo Naroda to these counter-revolutionary 
exercises of Mr. Kerensky. 
I t is incredible, but a fact. Petrograd Socialist- 
Revolutionary Kerensky, seated in his Directory, arms 
himself with ìmachine gunsî and marches against the Socialist-
Revolutionaries in the Tashkent Soviet, yet 
Delo Naroda, central organ of the Socialist-Revolutionary 
Party, maintains a profound silence, as though 
it were none of its business! Socialist-Revolutionary 
Kerensky prepares to engage in a knifing match with 
the Socialist-Revolutionaries of Tashkent, yet Delo 
Naroda publishes Kerenskyís ferocious ìorderî without 
even thinking it necessary to comment on it, evidently 
determined to observe ìneutralityî! 
But what sort of party is this, whose members can 
go to the extent of slaughtering one another with the open 
connivance of its central organ? 
There must be a united revolutionary front, we are 
told. But unity with whom? 
With the Socialist-Revolutionary Party, which has 
no opinion of its own, for it remains silent? 
With the Kerensky group, which is preparing to 
smash the Soviets?

J. V. S T A L I N 326 
Or with the Tashkent group of Socialist-Revolutionaries, 
who are creating a new power for the sake 
of the revolution and its conquests? 
We are prepared to support the Tashkent Soviet; 
we shall fight in the same ranks as the revolutionary 
Socialist-Revolutionaries; with them we shall have a 
united front. 
But will the citizens of Delo Naroda ever understand 
that it is impossible to support both the Tashkent 
group and Kerensky simultaneously? For whoever 
supports the Tashkent group must break with Kerensky. 
Will they ever understand that in not breaking with 
the Kerensky government and in observing ìneutralityî 
they are betraying the cause of their Tashkent comrades? 
Will they ever understand that before demanding 
a united front with the Bolsheviks they must first establish 
unity in their own house, in their own party, by 
definitely breaking either with Kerensky, or with the 
Left Socialist-Revolutionaries? 
You want a united front with the Bolsheviks? Then 
break with the Kerensky government, support the Soviets 
in their struggle for power, and there will be unity. 
Why was unity established so easily and simply 
in the days of the Kornilov revolt? 
Because then i t arose not as a result of endless 
debates, but in the course of a direct struggle against 
counter-revolution. 
The counter-revolution is not yet crushed. It has only 
retreated and is hiding behind the Kerensky government. 
The revolution must capture this second line of 
trenches of the counter-revolution also, if it wants to be 
victorious. And the culmination of this victory will

THE REVOLUTIONARY FRONT 327 
be precisely the success of the Soviets in their struggle 
for power. He who does not want to find himself ìon the 
other side of the barricades,î he who does not want to 
come under the fire of the Soviets, he who wants the 
victory of the revolution, must break with the Kerensky 
government and support the struggle of the Soviets. 
You want a united revolutionary front? 
Then support the Soviets against the Directory, 
support the struggle against the counter-revolution resolutely 
and unreservedlyódo this, and unity will be 
achieved as a matter of course, simply and naturally, 
as was the case during the Kornilov revolt. 
With the Soviets or against them? Choose, citizens 
of Delo Naroda. 
Rabochy Put, No. 14, 
September 19, 1917 
Editorial

FORGING CHAINS 
The machinery of compromise has been set in motion. 
That political house of assignation, the Winter Palace, 
is full of clients. Whom do we not find there! Just take 
a look at them, the honoured guestsóMoscow Kornilovites 
and Petrograd Savinkovites; Nabokov the Kornilovite 
ìMinisterî and Tsereteli the champion disarmer; 
Kishkin the sworn enemy of the Soviets and Konovalov 
the notorious lockout expert; representatives of the 
party of political deserters (the Cadets!) and cooperator 
bigwigs of the Berkenheim breed; representatives 
of the punitive expedition party (the Socialist-Revolutionaries!) 
and Right-wing Zemstvoists of the 
Dushechkin type; political pimps of the Directory 
and well-known plutocrats of the ìpublic manî 
category. 
Cadets and industrialists, on the one hand. 
Defencists and cooperators, on the other. 
On the one side, the industrialists as the prop, and 
the Cadets as the army. 
On the other, the cooperators as the prop, and 
the defencists as the army; for after the defencists lost 
the Soviets they had to retire to their old positions, 
to the cooperators.

FORGING CHAINS 329 
ìCast off the Bolsheviks,î and ìthe bourgeoisie and 
the democracy will then have a common front,î says 
Kishkin to the defencists. 
ìGlad to be of service,î replies Avksentyev, ìbut 
let us first establish a ëstatesmanlike approach.íî 
ìThe bourgeoisie no less than the democracy should 
reckon with the growth of Bolshevism and endeavour to 
form a coalition government,î Berkenheim admonishes 
Avksentyev. 
ìGlad to be of service,î Avksentyev replies. 
Do you hear: a coalition government is needed, it 
appears, for the purpose of fighting Bolshevism, that is, 
the Soviets, that is, the workers and soldiers! 
ìThe Pre-parliament must be an ëadvisory body,í 
and the government must be ëindependentí of it,î says 
Nabokov. 
ìGlad to be of service,î replies Tsereteli, because 
he agrees that ìthe Provisional Government should not 
be formally . . . responsible to the Pre-parliamentî 
(Rech). 
It is not the Pre-parliament that must set up the 
government but, on the contrary, the government must 
set up the Pre-parliament and ìannounce its composition, 
terms of reference and standing orders,î says the 
Cadet declaration. 
ìAgreed,î replies Tsereteli, ìthe government must 
sanction this institutionî (Novaya Zhizn) and determine 
ìits structureî (Rech). 
And that honest broker from the Winter Palace, 
Mr. Kerensky, authoritatively proclaims: 
1) ìThe right to form the government and appoint its members 
now belongs solely to the Provisional Government.î

J. V. S T A L I N 330 
2) ìThis conference (the Pre-parliament) cannot have the 
functions and rights of a parliament.î 
3) ìThe Provisional Government cannot be responsible to 
this conferenceî (Rech). 
In short, Kerensky ìfully agreesî with the Cadets, 
and the defencists are glad to be of service. What more 
do you want? 
It was not for nothing that Prokopovich said on leaving 
the Winter Palace: ìIt may be taken that agreement 
has been reached.î 
It is true that only yesterday the conference declared 
against coalition with the Cadets. But what do the 
inveterate compromisers care about that? Seeing that 
they had decided to counterfeit the will of the revolutionary 
democracy by convening a conference instead 
of a Congress of Soviets, why should they not counterfeit 
the will of the conference itself? It is only the first 
step thatís hard. 
It is true that only yesterday the conference passed 
a resolution to the effect that the Pre-parliament was 
to ìset upî the government and that the latter was to 
be ìresponsibleî to it. But what do the inveterate compromisers 
care about that, as long as coalition flourishesó
and as for the decisions of the conference, of what 
use are they when they militate against coalition? 
Poor ìDemocratic Conferenceî! 
Poor naive and trusting delegates! 
Could they have anticipated that their leaders would 
go to the length of downright treachery? 
Our Party was right when it asserted that the pettybourgeois 
Socialist-Revolutionaries and Mensheviks, who 
derive their strength not from the revolutionary move

FORGING CHAINS 331 
ment of the masses but from compromise arrangements 
of bourgeois politicians, are incapable of pursuing an 
independent policy. 
Our Party was right when it said that a policy of 
compromise must lead to betrayal of the interests of 
the revolution. 
Everyone now realizes that those political bankrupts, 
the defencists, are forging chains for the peoples 
of Russia with their own hands, to the glee of the enemies 
of the revolution. 
It is not for nothing that the Cadets feel satisfied 
and are rubbing their hands in anticipation of victory. 
It is not for nothing that Messieurs the compromisers 
are slouching around ìlike whipped cursî with a 
guilty look on their faces. 
It is not for nothing that a note of victory is to be 
heard in Kerenskyís declarations. 
Yes, they are jubilating. 
But insecure is their ìvictoryî and transient their 
jubilation, for they are reckoning without their host, the 
people. 
For the hour is near when the deceived workers and 
soldiers will at last utter their weighty word and upset 
their spurious ìvictoryî like a house of cards. 
And then Messieurs the compromisers will have 
only themselves to blame if with the rest of the coalition 
junk, their own defencist lumber is sent flying. 
Rabochy Put, No. 19, 
September 24, 1917 
Editorial

A GOVERNMENT 
OF BOURGEOIS DICTATORSHIP 
After the fake conference and the disgraceful collapse 
of the government, after the ìconversationsî with 
the Moscow stockbrokers and the mysterious visits to 
Sir George Buchanan, after the loversí meetings at the 
Winter Palace and a series of treacheries on the part of 
the compromisers, a ìnewî (brand new!) government has 
at last been-formed. 
Six capitalist Ministers as the core of the ìcabinetî 
with ten ìsocialistî Ministers to serve them as executants 
of their will. 
The government has not yet issued its declaration, 
but what its main planks will be is known: ìmeasures 
against anarchyî (read: against the Soviets!), ìmeasures 
against economic disruptionî (read: against strikes!), 
ìimprovement of the fighting efficiency of the armyî 
(read: continuation of the war, and ìdisciplineî!). 
This, in general, is the ìprogramî of the Kerensky- 
Konovalov government. 
What it means is that the peasants will not get land, 
the workers will not get control of industry, and Russia 
will not get peace. 
The Kerensky-Konovalov government is a government 
of war and bourgeois dictatorship.

A GOVERNMENT OF BOURGEOIS DICTATORSHIP 333 
The ten ìsocialistî Ministers are a screen behind 
which the imperialist bourgeoisie will work to strengthen 
its rule over the workers, peasants and soldiers. 
What Kornilov wanted to achieve with the bluntness 
and simpleness of a general, the ìnewî government 
will endeavour to achieve gradually and inconspicuously 
by the hand of the ìSocialistsî themselves. 
What distinguishes the dictatorship of the bourgeoisie 
from the dictatorship of the proletariat and 
revolutionary peasantry? 
The fact that the dictatorship of the bourgeoisie 
is the rule of a minority over the majority, exercised 
solely by coercing the majority and calling for civil 
war against the majority. The dictatorship of the proletariat 
and revolutionary peasantry, on the other hand, 
is the rule of the majority over the minority, and can 
therefore dispense with civil war altogether. But it follows 
from this that the policy of the ìnewî government 
will be a policy of provoking unsuccessful partial actions, 
in order to incite the soldiers against the workers, or 
the front against the rear, and drown the might of the 
revolution in blood. 
The fact also that the dictatorship of the bourgeoisie 
is a secret, concealed, backstage dictatorship, which 
needs a plausible camouflage with which to deceive 
the masses. The dictatorship of the proletariat and 
revolutionary peasantry, on the other hand, is an open 
dictatorship, a dictatorship of the masses, which has no 
need to resort to deception in home affairs or to secret 
diplomacy in foreign affairs. But it follows that 
our bourgeois dictators will strive to solve the most 
vital problems of the country, the question of war and

J. V. S T A L I N 334 
peace, for example, behind the back of the masses, 
without the masses, by means of a conspiracy against 
the masses. 
We have clear evidence of this in the very first 
steps of the Kerensky-Konovalov government. Judge 
for yourselves. The key posts in foreign affairs have 
been entrusted to leading Cadet Kornilovites. Tereshchenko 
gets the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Nabokov 
the embassy in London, Maklakov the embassy 
in Paris, Yefremov the embassy in Berne, where a (preliminary!) 
international peace conference is now gathering. 
And these people, who have no connection with the 
masses, who are open enemies of the masses, will 
decide the question of war and peace, in which the lives 
of millions of soldiers are at stake! 
Or again: according to the newspapers, ìKerensky, Tereshchenko, 
Verkhovsky and Verderevsky are today leaving 
for General Headquarters,î where ìbesides a discussion 
of the general situation at the front in which Tereshchenko 
will participate, there will be a conference 
of the foreign military agents attached to General Headquartersî 
(Birzhovka, evening edition). . . . And all 
that as a preliminary to an Allied conference, to which 
the celebrated Tsereteli is being taken in the capacity of 
Mr. Tereshchenkoís Sancho Panza. What can these 
loyal servitors of imperialism have to whisper about, 
if not the interests of the imperialists, home and Allied? 
And what can their clandestine discussions of peace and 
war amount to, if not to a conspiracy against the interests 
of the people? 
Doubt is out of the question. The Kerensky-Konovalov 
government is a government of the dictatorship of

A GOVERNMENT OF BOURGEOIS DICTATORSHIP 335 
the imperialist bourgeoisie. Its home policy is provocation 
of civil war. Its foreign policy is a clandestine 
settlement of the question of war and peace. Its aim is 
to consolidate the rule of a minority over the majority 
of the population of Russia. 
It is the task of the proletariat, as the leader of the 
Russian revolution, to tear the mask from this government 
and expose its true counter-revolutionary face to 
the masses. It is the task of the proletariat to rally 
around itself the soldier and peasant masses and to restrain 
them from premature action. It is the task of the 
proletariat to close its ranks and prepare tirelessly for 
the impending battles. 
The workers and soldiers in the capital have already 
taken the first step by passing a vote of no confidence 
in the Kerensky-Konovalov government and by calling 
upon the masses ìto rally around their Soviets and to 
refrain from partial actionsî (see the resolution of the 
Petrograd Soviet79). 
It is now for the provinces to say their word. 
Rabochy Put, No. 21, 
September 27, 1917 
Editorial

COMMENTS 
THE RAILWAY STRIKE 
AND THE DEMOCRATIC BANKRUPTS 
The grandly conceived and magnificently organized 
railway strike80 is apparently coming to an end. The 
victory is with the railwaymen, because it is self-evident 
that the puny coalition of the Kornilov-defencist 
camp is incapable of withstanding the mighty onslaught 
of the entire democracy of the country. It is now clear 
to all that the strike was ìinstigatedî not by the malicious 
intent of the railwaymen, but by the anti-revolutionary 
policy of the Directory. It is now clear to all 
that the strike was forced on the country not by the 
Railwaymenís Committees, but by the counter-revolutionary 
threats of Kerensky and Nikitin. It is now clear 
to all that the failure of the strike would have led to the 
certain militarization of the railways and . . . the consolidation 
of the power of the imperialist bourgeoisie. 
The railwaymen were right in retorting to the despicable 
calumnies of Kerensky and Nikitin with the damning 
accusation: 
ìIt is not we, citizens Kerensky and Nikitin, who have betrayed 
the country, but you who have betrayed your ideals, and 
the Provisional Government which has betrayed its promises. This 
time no words or threats can stop us.î

COMMENTS 337 
All this, we repeat, is clear and generally known. 
Yet, it appears, there are men calling themselves 
democrats who nevertheless think it permissible at this 
grave moment to throw stones at the railwaymen, not 
realizing, or not desiring to realize, that they are thereby 
bringing grist to the mill of the cannibals of Rech 
and Novoye Vremya. 
We are referring to the Menshevik Rabochaya Gazeta. 
Accusing the strike leaders of having ìbent to the 
forces of chaosî in declaring the strike, the paper 
menacingly declares: 
ìThe democracy will not forgive the railwaymenís general 
staff for this. The interests of the whole country, of the entire 
democracy, cannot be staked so lightlyî (Rabochaya Gazeta, 
No. 170). 
It is incredible, but a fact: a shabby sheet, which 
has not a trace of democracy in it, considers itself entitled 
to hurl threats at the genuine democracy, the 
toilers of the railways. 
ìThe democracy will not forgive.î . . . But in the 
name of which democracy are you speaking, gentlemen 
of Rabochaya Gazeta? 
Is it in the name of the democracy of the Soviets, 
which turned its back on you, and whose will you faked 
at the conference? 
But who gave you the right to speak in the name of 
that democracy? 
Or are you speaking in the name of Tsereteli, Dan, 
Lieber and the other counterfeiters who faked the will 
of the Soviets at the conference and betrayed the conference 
itself at the ìnegotiationsî in the Winter Palace?

J. V. S T A L I N 338 
But who gave you the right to identify these betrayers 
of democracy with ìthe democracy of the entire countryî? 
Will you ever realize that the way of Rabochaya 
Gazeta and the way of ìthe democracy of the entire countryî 
have irrevocably parted? 
Wretched democratic bankrupts! . . . 
* 
* 
* 
THE RUSSIAN PEASANTS 
AND THE PARTY OF NUMSKULLS 
Not so long ago we wrote that in the Socialist-Revolutionary 
Party there was no consensus of opinion on 
the basic issueóthe struggle between the government 
and the Soviets. Whereas the Right-wing Socialist- 
Revolutionaries urged the disbandment of the ìanarchisticî 
Soviets (remember Tashkent!) and organized punitive 
expeditions, and the Left wing supported the Soviets, 
the Chernov Centre was afflicted with Hamletlike 
doubts, had no opinion of its own, and preferred 
to observe ìneutrality.î True, the Centre subsequently 
ìrecovered its wits,î recalled the members of the Socialist-
Revolutionary Party from the Tashkent Soviet, and 
thereby supported the punitive expedition policy. But 
who does not know now that this recall only exposed 
the disgrace of the Socialist-Revolutionary Party, because 
the Socialist-Revolutionaries did not leave the 
Tashkent Soviet, and it was not the Soviet, but the Kerensky 
government and its underlings who proved to be 
guilty of ìcounter-revolutionary actionsî?. . . 
But hardly had the Socialist-Revolutionaries extricated 
themselves from this ìbusiness,î when they found

FROM MARX 
TO MAO 
 
NOT FOR 
COMMERCIAL 
DISTRIBUTION 
339 
themselves involved in another and even viler ìbusiness.î 
We are referring to the way they voted on the 
land question in the so-called Pre-parliament. 
In the course of the debate in the Pre-parliament 
on the Declaration of August 14,81 the Left-wing Socialist-
Revolutionaries moved that all the landed estates 
be placed under the management of the Peasant Committees. 
Need it be said that it is the duty of democrats 
to support this proposal? Need it be said either that 
the question of the land is a fundamental issue of our 
revolution? And what do we find? Whereas the Bolsheviks 
and the Left-wing Socialist-Revolutionaries proposed 
that the land should be transferred to the peasants, 
and the Right-wing Socialist-Revolutionaries and 
Lieberdanists82 opposed this proposal, the Chernov Centre 
again proved to be without ìits own opinionî and abstained 
from voting! 
Chernov, the ìMuzhik Minister,î did not venture 
to come out in support of the transfer of the landed 
estates to the peasants, leaving the question to be decided 
by the fakers of the will of the peasants! 
At a critical moment of the Russian revolution the 
Socialist-Revolutionary Party, the party of ìagrarian 
revolutionî and ìintegral socialism,î proved to have 
no definite opinion on the fundamental question of the 
peasants! 
Verily, a party of prating numskulls! 
Poor Russian peasants. . . . 
Rabochy Put, No. 21, 
September 27, 1917 
Unsigned 
COMMENTS

CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE WORKERS 
A week ago the bourgeois press started a witch-hunt 
against the Donets Basin workers. There was no fantastic 
charge the corrupt bourgeois papers did not level 
against themóthey accused them of ìanarchy,î of 
ìwrecking plants,î of ìarresting and beating upî office 
personnel! Already then it could be foreseen that a campaign 
against the Donets workers was being planned, and 
that the government was paving the way for it. And, 
sure enough, the government ìdid not remain deafî 
to the howls of the hirelings of the bourgeoisie. That 
is what a government of bourgeois dictatorship is for. 
It was reported in the press that the Provisional Governmentís 
Chief Economic Committee, with the ìbenevolent 
acquiescenceî of Kerensky, of course, ìdeemed 
it expedient to dispatch to Kharkov and the Donets 
Basin . . . a person vested with dictatorial powers. This 
person is to be instructed to induce the manufacturers 
to continue operation and to bring influence to bear on 
the working masses with a view to their pacification. 
All means of coercion at the disposal of the government 
authorities are to be placed at the command of 
this personî (Torgovo-Promyshlennaya Gazeta,83 September 
26).

CAMPAIGN AGAINST THE WORKERS 341 
Mark: a ìdictatorî with ìmeans of coercion.î . . . 
Against whom is this still anonymous ìdictatorî being 
dispatched? Is it against the Donets employers, who 
for three months now have been deliberately curtailing 
production and criminally swelling unemployment, and 
are now openly and publicly organizing lockouts and 
threatening the disruption of the economic life of the 
country? 
Of course, not! 
The Chief Economic Committee bluntly says that 
the whole trouble lies with ìmalicious agitators,î and 
not the employers, for, ìAccording to available information, 
the excesses have been provoked by groups of 
malicious agitatorsî (Ibid.). 
It is against them, in the first place, that the ìdictatorî 
with his ìmeans of coercionî is being dispatched. 
Nor is that all. According to Birzhovka, the Kharkov 
Conference of Manufacturers has resolved: 
1) That ìhiring and discharge of office personnel and workers 
is the exclusive right of the owners.î 
2) That ìinterference by the Soviet of Workersí Deputies 
in the management and control of production is impermissible.î 
3) That ìthe owners cannot bear the expense of maintenance 
and payment of the members of the Soviet of Workersí Deputies, 
executive committees or trade unions.î 
4) That ìno wage increases can improve the lot of the workersî 
(Birzheviye Vedomosti, September 27). 
In brief, the manufacturers are declaring war on the 
workers and their organizations. 
It need scarcely be said that lockout-man Konovalovís 
government will not fail to take the lead in this 
war on the workers.

J. V. S T A L I N 342 
And since the workers will not surrender without 
a fight, a ìdictatorî with ìmeans of coercionî is needed. 
Thatís the whole secret. 
Savinkov was called a counter-revolutionary for 
having drafted a bill for the militarization of enterprises 
working for defence. 
Kornilov was accused of treason for having demanded 
the enactment of that bill. 
What shall we call a government which ìwithout 
wasting wordsî sends to the Donets Basin a ìdictatorî 
with unlimited powers and armed with ìall means of 
coercionî to wage war on the working masses and to 
smash their organizations? 
What have Messieurs the ìsocialistî Ministers to 
say to this? 
Rabochy Put, No. 22, 
September 28, 1917 
Unsigned

YOU WILL WAIT IN VAIN! 
The outstanding feature of the present moment is the 
impassable chasm that lies between the government and 
the masses, a chasm which did not exist in the early 
months of the revolution, and which opened as a result 
of the Kornilov revolt. 
After the victory over tsarism, at the very beginning 
of the revolution, power came into the hands 
of the imperialist bourgeoisie. It was not the workers 
and soldiers, but a handful of Cadet imperialists who 
came to power. How did that happen, and what 
precisely did the rule of this handful of bourgeois rest 
on? The fact of the matter was that the workers and, 
chiefly, the soldiers placed their trust in the bourgeoisie 
and hoped, in alliance with i t , to secure bread and 
land, peace and freedom. It was on this ìunreasoning 
trustî of the masses in the bourgeoisie that the rule of 
the bourgeoisie then rested. The coalition with the 
bourgeoisie was merely the expression of this trust and 
this rule. 
But six months of revolution have not been in vain. 
What the coalition with the bourgeoisie has given the 
masses is starvation instead of bread, unemployment 
instead of higher wages, empty promises instead of

J. V. S T A L I N 344 
land, a fight against the Soviets instead of liberty, war 
until the exhaustion of Russia and the treachery of the 
Kornilovites at Tarnopol and Riga instead of peace. 
The Kornilov revolt merely summed up the six monthsí 
experience of coalition by revealing the treachery of 
the Cadets and the disastrousness of a policy of compromise 
with them. 
All that, of course, has not been in vain. The ìunreasoning 
trustî of the masses in the bourgeoisie has 
disappeared. Coalition with the Cadets has been succeeded 
by a break with them. Confidence in the bourgeoisie 
has been succeeded by hatred for it. The rule of the 
bourgeoisie no longer has a reliable foundation. 
It is true that with the help of the compromise devices 
of the defencists, with the help of fake and forgery, 
with the assistance of Buchanan and the Cadet Kornilovites, 
and in the face of the manifest distrust of the 
workers and soldiers, the compromisers have nevertheless 
succeeded in knocking together a ìnewî government 
of the old bourgeois dictatorship by fraudulently 
restoring the obsolete and dilapidated coalition. 
But, in the first place, this coalition is anemic, for, 
engineered in the Winter Palace, it is meeting with 
resistance and indignation in the country. 
In the second place, this government is unstable, 
for it has no firm ground under its feet in the shape of 
the confidence and sympathy of the masses, who feel 
nothing but hatred for it. 
Hence the impassable chasm that lies between the 
government and the country. 
And if this government remains in power nevertheless, 
if, in obedience to the will of a minority, it intends

YOU WILL WAIT IN VAIN! 345 
to rule over an obviously hostile majority, it is clear that 
it can be relying on one thing onlyóthe use of violence 
against the masses. Such a government can have no 
other backing. 
It is therefore no chance thing that the first step of 
the Kerensky-Konovalov government was to disperse 
the Tashkent Soviet. 
Nor is it a chance thing that this government has 
already set out to suppress the workersí movement in 
the Donets Basin, and has sent a mysterious ìdictatorî 
there. 
Nor is i t a chance thing either that at its meeting 
yesterday it declared war on peasant ìunrestî by 
resolving: 
ìto set up local committees of the Provisional Government, 
the direct function of which shall be to combat anarchy and to put 
down disordersî (Birzhovka). 
None of these are chance things. 
Deprived of the confidence of the masses, but desiring 
to remain in power nevertheless, the government 
of bourgeois dictatorship cannot exist without ìanarchyî 
and ìdisorders,î for it is by combating them that 
it can justify its existence. Its one dream is that the 
Bolsheviks ìorganize a revolt,î or that the peasants 
ìwreckî landed estates, or that the railwaymen ìfoist a 
disastrous strike on the countryî which interrupts the 
supply of food to the front. . . . It ìneedsî all this in 
order to incite the peasants against the workers, the 
front against the rear, thus creating the need for armed 
intervention and enabling it to strengthen its insecure 
position for a time.

J. V. S T A L I N 346 
For it must be understood at last that, lacking the 
confidence of the country and surrounded by the hatred 
of the masses, this government can be nothing else than 
a government for the provocation of ìcivil war.î 
It is not for nothing that Rech, the semi-official organ 
of the Provisional Government, warns the government 
against ìgiving the Bolsheviks the opportunity of 
choosing the moment for declaring civil war,î and advises 
it not to ìwait in patience until they (the Bolsheviks) 
choose a convenient moment for a general offensiveî 
(Rech, Wednesday). 
Yes, they are thirsting for the blood of the 
people. . . . 
But their hopes are vain and their efforts ridiculous. 
Consciously and in organized fashion, the revolutionary 
proletariat is marching to victory. Unanimously 
and confidently the peasants and soldiers are rallying 
behind it. Ever louder rings the cry: ìAll power to the 
Soviets!î 
Can the paper coalition in the Winter Palace . . . 
withstand this pressure? 
You want disunited and premature Bolshevik actions? 
You will wait in vain, Messieurs the Kornilovites. 
Rabochy Put, No. 23, 
September 29, 1917 
Editorial

COMMENTS 
THE PARTY OF ìINDETERMINATESî 
AND THE RUSSIAN SOLDIERS 
In the days of tsarism the Socialist-Revolutionary 
Party used to cry from the housetops that the landed 
estates must be turned over to the peasants. The peasants 
believed the Socialist-Revolutionaries and rallied 
to them, regarding them as their party, the party of 
the peasants. 
With the fall of tsarism and the victory of the revolution, 
the time at last came for the Socialist-Revolutionaries 
to pass from word to deed and to carry out their 
ìgolden promisesî of land. But . . . (that famous ìbutî!) 
the Socialist-Revolutionaries vacillated and stammeringly 
suggested to the peasants that they put off the 
land question until the meeting of the Constituent 
Assembly, the convocation of which, moreover, was 
postponed. 
It appeared that it was easier to rant about the land 
and the peasants than actually to turn over the land 
to the peasants. It appeared that the Socialist-Revolutionaries 
had only professed to ìcommiserateî with 
the peasants, and that when the time came to pass from

J. V. S T A L I N 348 
word to deed, they preferred to back out and hide behind 
the Constituent Assembly. . . . 
The peasants retorted to this with a powerful agrarian 
movement, unauthorized ìseizureî of landed estates and 
ìappropriationî of farm stock and implements, thereby 
expressing their lack of confidence in the Socialist- 
Revolutionariesí policy of temporizing. 
The Socialist-Revolutionary Ministers were not slow 
to retaliate, and they arrested scores and hundreds of 
peasants, members of the Land Committees. And so we 
got a picture of Socialist-Revolutionary Ministers arresting 
Socialist-Revolutionary peasants for carrying out 
Socialist-Revolutionary promises. 
The upshot is the complete disintegration of the 
Socialist-Revolutionary Party, a disintegration most 
vividly manifested in the voting in the Pre-parliament, 
when the Left Socialist-Revolutionaries came out 
for, and the Right Socialist-Revolutionaries against, 
the immediate transfer of the land to the peasants, while 
Chernov, that Hamlet of the party, and the Centre judiciously 
abstained from voting. 
The reply was a mass exodus of soldiers from the 
Socialist-Revolutionary Party. 
Now one section of the soldiers, who have not yet 
left the Socialist-Revolutionary Party, emphatically ìurge 
the Central Committeeî to bring about unity in the 
party by putting an end to the ìindeterminateness.î 
Listen to this: 
ìThis joint conference of representatives of the army organizations 
of the regiments and special units of Petrograd, Tsarskoye 
Selo, Peterhof, etc., considering it necessary at this grave 
moment for the Party to cement its majority . . . on the basis of

COMMENTS 349 
a program which would put an end to the Partyís indeterminateness 
and unite all its virile elements . . . declares in favour 
of . . . the immediate transfer of all arable land to the Land Committees. 
. .î (Delo Naroda). 
And so, the question of the ìimmediate transfer of 
the landî is raised again! 
On the basis of the recognition of this demand the 
soldiers hope to unite all the ìvirile elementsî in the 
Socialist-Revolutionary Party. 
Naive innocents! After a series of failures, they 
again want to harness Kamkov the revolutionary, Avksentyev 
the Cadet and Chernov the ìindeterminateî 
to one cart! 
It is high time to realize, comrade soldiers, that 
the Socialist-Revolutionary Party no longer exists, that 
there is only an ìindeterminateî mass, one section of 
which has got entangled in Savinkovism, another has 
remained within the revolutionary ranks, while a third 
is hopelessly at a standstill and in practice is serving 
as a shield for the Savinkovites. 
It is high time to realize that and to abandon all 
attempts to unite the ununitable. . . . 
* 
* 
* 
CONSPIRATORS IN POWER 
Burtsev writes today in his newspaper Obshcheye 
Delo84 
ìIt may now be quite confidently affirmed that there was no 
Kornilov conspiracy! Actually there was something quite different: 
a compact between the government and General Kornilov to

J. V. S T A L I N 350 
fight the Bolsheviks! That which the governmentís representatives 
were negotiating with General Kornilovóa fight against the Bolsheviksó
had been the cherished dream of representatives of various 
parties, both democratic and socialist. Right down to that 
unhappy day of August 26, they all looked upon General Kornilov 
as their saviour from the impending Bolshevik menace.î 
Not a ìconspiracy,î but a ìcompactîówrites Burtsev 
in italics. 
He is right. In this instance he is undoubtedly right. 
A compact was concluded to organize a conspiracy 
against the Bolsheviks, that is, against the working 
class, against the revolutionary army and the peasantry. 
It was a compact for a conspiracy against the revolution! 
That is what we have been saying from the very 
first day of the Kornilov revolt. Scores and hundreds 
of facts corroborate it. Exposures which no one has 
refuted leave no doubt about it. 
In spite of this, the conspirators are in power, 
or in the purlieus of power. In spite of this, the farce 
continuesóthe farce of an inquiry, the farce of 
ìrevolution.î . . . 
A coalition with conspirators, a conspiratorial governmentó
that, it appears, is what the defencist gentry 
have thrust upon the workers and soldiers! 
Rabochy Put, No. 23, 
September 29, 1917 
Unsigned

A PAPER COALITION 
Economic disruption is talked about. Economic 
disruption is written about. Economic disruption is used 
as a bogey, frequently with an allusion to the ìanarchisticî 
sentiments of the workers. But nobody wants to admit 
openly that the disruption is frequently engineered and 
deliberately aggravated by the capitalists, who close 
down factories and doom the workers to unemployment. 
Birzhovka has some interesting information on 
this score. 
ìAt the mills of the Russo-French Cotton Spinning Corporation 
in Pavlovsky Posad, Moscow Gubernia, a conflict arose over 
non-observance of the contract drawn up by a commission of the 
Orekhovo-Zuyevo district under the chairmanship of Minister Prokopovich. 
Some four thousand workers are employed at the mills. 
The workersí committee informed the Ministry of Labour that 
a grave situation had arisen owing to the refusal of the employers 
to submit to a decision of the arbitration court, and owing to 
their deliberate reduction of productivity of labour. Negotiations 
had been going on for four months, and now there was a danger 
of the mills being closed down. The management of the Russo- 
French mills, on its part, made representations to the French 
Embassy, affirming that the workers refused to obey a decision 
of the arbitration court and were threatening excesses and destruction 
of property. The French Embassy requested the Ministry 
of Foreign Affairs to assist in settling the dispute.î

J. V. S T A L I N 352 
And what do we find? It appears that the ìmanagement 
of the millsî and the ìFrench Embassyî have 
both libelled the workers in an effort to whitewash the 
lockout capitalists. Listen to this: 
ìThe case was submitted to the Moscow Commissar of the 
Ministry of Labour, who, after investigating the conflict on the 
spot, informed the Minister of Labour that the factory management 
had systematically evaded carrying out decisions of the arbitration 
court. The report of the Ministry of Labourís Moscow Commissar 
has been transmitted to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.î 
As we see, even a commissar of a counter-revolutionary 
Ministry had to admit that the workers were right. 
Nor is that all. Birzhovka reports another and even 
more interesting case. 
ìThe Ministry of Labour has been informed from Moscow 
that the management of the A. V. Smirnov factory had announced 
that the plant, which employs three thousand workers, would 
be closed down owing to lack of raw materials and fuel and the 
need for capital repairs. A commission, consisting of representatives 
of Moscow Fuel and the Moscow Factory Conference, together 
with the workersí committee of the factory, instituted an inquiry 
and found that the reasons given for closing down the factory were 
baseless, since there was sufficient raw material for operation and 
the repairs could be effected without suspending work. On the 
strength of this, the workers arrested the factory owner. The Zemstvo 
Assembly has recommended the sequestration of the factory. The 
Pokrovsky Executive Committee and the Provisional Governmentís 
uyezd commissar are assisting in the settlement of 
the conflict.î 
Such are the facts. 
The Socialist-Revolutionary and Menshevik compromisers 
cry from the housetops that a coalition with 
the ìvirile forcesî of the country is essential, and they

A PAPER COALITION 353 
definitely point to the Moscow industrialists. And they 
constantly stress that what they mean is not a verbal 
coalition in the Winter Palace, but a real coalition in the 
country. . . . 
We ask: 
Is any real coalition possible between factory owners 
who deliberately swell unemployment and workers who, 
with the benevolent assistance of Provisional Government 
commissars, arrest them for this? 
Is there any limit to the stupidity of ìrevolutionaryî 
windbags who never tire of singing the praises of coalition 
with lockout criminals? 
Do not these ridiculous trumpeters of coalition realize 
that no coalition is possible now except on paper, a coalition 
concluded within the walls of the Winter Palace 
and doomed beforehand to failure? 
Rabochy Put, No. 24, 
September 30, 1917 
Unsigned

COMMENTS 
STARVATION IN THE COUNTRYSIDE 
Everybody is now talking about the food crisis in the 
cities. The spectre of the ìgaunt handî of famine is 
stalking the towns. But nobody wants to admit that 
famine has now spread to the rural areas. Nobody wants 
to realize that it is starvation that is now the motivating 
cause of a good half of the ìagrarian disordersî 
and ìriots.î 
Here is a letter from a peasant on the subject of the 
agrarian ìdisordersî: 
ìI should like you to explain to us, ëthe unenlightened folk, 
the peasants,í what is the reason for the riots? You think it is all 
the work of hooligans and vagabonds and drunken tramps, but 
you are a bit off the mark. It is not the work of vagabonds and 
tramps, but of people who are drunk from starvation. I, for instance, 
can tell you about the Murom Uyezd, the Arefino Volost. They 
want to starve us to death here. We get five pounds of flour a 
month per person. Just think what this means and try to understand 
our situation. How are we going to live? It is not so much 
people drunken with wine who are rioting here, but we ourselves, 
because we are ëhunger drunkíî (see Birzhovka). 
The curs of the bourgeois Dyen and Russkaya Volya 
are constantly yelping that the countryside is rolling 
in wealth, that the muzhik i s well off and so on. 
But the facts incontrovertibly show that the country

COMMENTS 355 
side is suffering from starvation and exhaustion, from 
scurvy and other diseases due to starvation. And the 
conditions in the countryside grow more trying as time 
goes on, because, instead of food, the Kerensky-Konovalov 
government is planning to send new punitive expeditions 
into the countryside, and the approaching winter 
promises the muzhik new and still severer hardships. 
The same peasant writes: 
ìThe winter will soon be here, the rivers will freeze over, 
and there will be nothing left for us then but to starve to death. 
The railway station i s a long way off . We shall go out and 
get food. Call us what you like, but starvation compels us to do 
thisî (Birzhovka). 
Such is the eloquent story of a peasant. 
The Socialist-Revolutionary and Menshevik compromisers 
trumpeted about the all-saving virtue of coalition 
and a coalition government. Now we have a ìcoalitionî 
and a ìcoalitionî government. But we ask: 
Where is the all-saving virtue of this government? 
What can it give the starving countryside except 
punitive expeditions? 
Do Messieurs the compromisers not realize that the 
artless letter of this peasant pronounces sentence of 
death on the coalition they have concocted? 
* 
* 
* 
STARVATION IN THE FACTORIES 
The sufferings of the factory areas are severer still. 
This is not the first time starvation has visited the industrial 
population, but never has it been so rampant.

J. V. S T A L I N 356 
Russia, which before the war exported 400-500 million 
poods of grain annually, now, in time of war, is 
unable to feed her own workers. Factories are coming 
to a standstill and the workers are fleeing from their 
jobs because the industrial areas are without bread, 
without food. 
Here are some reports from various localities. 
ìA dispatch from Shuya states that wood sawing has stopped 
throughout the uyezd owing to lack of food. The Koryukovka 
sugar refinery may have to close down because there is no food for 
the workers. The sugar beet is beginning to rot. The 12,000 inhabitants 
of the Yartsevo spinning and weaving mills settlement, 
Smolensk Gubernia, are in a dreadful plight. Flour and cereal 
stocks are completely exhausted. The gubernia food committee 
is powerless. Not receiving food, the workers are getting restless. 
Disorders are inevitable. The factory stewardsí council of the Kuvshinov 
paper mills, Tver Gubernia, wires: Workers on the verge 
of starvation; food denied everywhere; request immediate relief. 
The management of the Morokin factory, Vichuga, wires: Food 
situation menacing; workers starving and getting restless; urgent 
measures needed to ensure supplies. The factory committee of 
this company has sent the following telegram to the Ministry: 
Urgently implore supplies of flour for the workers, who are already 
starving.î 
Such are the facts. 
The agricultural areas complain that they get extremely 
small supplies of manufactured goods from the 
factory areas. They therefore release grain for the 
factory areas in equally small quantities. But shortage 
of bread in the industrial areas is driving the 
workers from the factories and cutting down factory 
output, thus further reducing the quantity of goods 
sent to the countryside, and this, in its turn, leads to 
a further reduction of the amount of grain flowing to the

COMMENTS 357 
factories, worse starvation, and further desertions of 
workers from the factories. 
We ask: 
What is the way out of this vicious circle, of this 
iron vice which is gripping workers and peasants? 
What has the so-called coalition government to 
offer besides the notorious ìdictatorsî it is secretly 
sending to the starving industrial areas? 
Do Messieurs the compromisers realize that the imperialist 
bourgeoisie, whom they are still supporting, have 
driven Russia into an impasse, from which there is no 
escape except by stopping the predatory war? 
Rabochy Put, No. 26, 
October 3, 1917 
Unsigned

SELF-CHASTISEMENT 
A little while ago a ìmost commonplaceî incident 
occurred in Tashkent, ìthe like of which there are manyî 
in Russia nowadays. The Tashkent workers and soldiers, 
swayed by the revolutionizing logic of events, expressed 
their lack of confidence in the old Executive Committee 
of the Soviets, elected a new Revolutionary Committee, 
dismissed the Kornilov authorities and appointed 
others in their place, and took the power into 
their own hands. That was sufficient for the Perekhvat- 
Zalikhvats* of the Provisional Government to declare 
war on the ìanarchistî Tashkent Soviet. True, 
the facts show that the majority of the Soviet are 
Socialist-Revolutionaries, not Anarchists. But that 
means nothing to the Provisional Government ìpacifiers.î 
And the Socialist-Revolutionary Hamlets of Delo 
Naroda, who meekly follow at Kerenskyís heel, proclaimed 
in their sagacity that the Tashkent Soviet was 
* Perekhvat-Zalikhvatskyóa character in History of a Town 
by the Russian satirist Saltykov-Shchedrin.óTr.

SELF-CHASTISEMENT 359 
ìcounter-revolutionary,î demanded the recall of the 
Socialist-Revolutionaries from the Soviet in Tashkent, 
and declared that ìrevolutionary orderî must be established 
in Turkestan. 
Even the decrepit Central Executive Committee 
considered i t necessary to have a kick at the poor 
Tashkenters. . . . 
Our Party alone vigorously and unreservedly supported 
the revolutionary Tashkent Soviet against the 
counter-revolutionary attacks of the government and 
its agents. 
And what do we find? 
Only a few weeks have elapsed since then, ìpassions 
have subsided,î and a delegate who arrived yesterday 
from Tashkent tells us the true story of the Tashkent 
ìincidentîóand it turns out that the Tashkenters honestly 
performed their revolutionary duty, notwithstanding 
the counter-revolutionary exercises of the agents of 
the Provisional Government. 
The Petrograd Soviet of Workersí and Soldiersí 
Deputies has unanimously passed a resolution of confidence 
in the Tashkent comrades and, by the vote ìof 
all its groups, the Soviet expresses its full readiness to 
support the just demands of the Tashkent revolutionary 
democracy.î Moreover, explaining her vote, Shirokova 
declared on behalf of the Socialist-Revolutionary 
Party that i t would vote for the Bolshevik resolution.
Well, then, what about the recall of the Socialist- 
Revolutionaries from the Tashkent Soviet? What has 
become of the ìcounter-revolutionary characterî of that 
Soviet and its ìunseemly conductî?

J. V. S T A L I N 360 
All this is now forgotten. . . . 
Very good, we welcome the Socialist-Revolutionariesí 
ìchange of heart.î Better late than never. 
But do the Delo Naroda leaders realize that 
they mercilessly chastised themselves a fortnight ago 
when they pusillanimously turned their backs on the 
Tashkent Soviet? 
Rabochy Put, No. 27, 
October 4, 1917 
Unsigned

THE PLOT AGAINST THE REVOLUTION 
Burtsev said recently in Obshcheye Delo that ìthere 
was no Kornilov conspiracy,î that there was ìonly a 
compactî between Kornilov and the Kerensky government 
to wipe out the Bolsheviks and the Soviets with 
a view to establishing a military dictatorship. In confirmation 
of this, Burtsev publishes in Obshcheye Delo, 
No. 6, an ìexplanatory memorandumî of Kornilovís, 
consisting of a number of documents which give the 
history of the conspiracy. The immediate object of Burtsevís 
move is to create a favourable atmosphere for 
Kornilov and to enable him to escape trial. 
We are far from inclined to consider Kornilovís 
materials exhaustive. Apart from the fact that Kornilov 
is trying to shield himself from the charge of treason, 
he omits to mention, for example, certain persons and 
organizations implicated in the conspiracy, in the first 
place, representatives of certain Embassies at General 
Headquarters who, on the evidence of witnesses, played 
a by no means secondary role. It should also be 
noted that Kornilovís ìexplanatory memorandumî was 
police-edited by Burtsev, who deleted several, and 
probably very important, passages from it. Nevertheless, 
the ìmemorandumî is of great value as documentary

J. V. S T A L I N 362 
evidence, and until it is countered by testimony of 
equal weight, it is as documentary evidence that we 
shall treat it. 
We therefore consider it necessary to discuss this 
document with our readers. 
Who Were They? 
Who were Kornilovís advisers and inspirers? To 
whom did he confide his conspiratorial designs in the 
first place? 
ìI wanted,î says Kornilov, ìto invite M. Rodzyanko, Prince 
G. Lvov and P. Milyukov to participate in the discussion of the 
state of the country and the measures needed to save it and the 
army from complete collapse, and requests were wired to them 
to be at General Headquarters not later than August 29.î 
Those were the principal advisers, on the admission 
of Kornilov himself. 
Nor i s that a l l . Besides advisers and inspirers, 
Kornilov had major collaborators, in whom he placed 
his hopes, on whom he relied, and with whom he intended 
to carry out his plot. 
Listen to this: 
ìA project for the constitution of a ëCouncil of National Defenceí 
was drawn up, to consist of the Supreme Commander as 
Chairman and Kerensky as Vice Chairman, Savinkov, General 
Alexeyev, Admiral Kolchak and Filonenko. This Council of 
Defence was to exercise a collective dictatorship, since it was 
recognized that a one-man dictatorship would be undesirable. 
Other Ministers suggested were Messrs. Takhtamyshev, Tretyakov, 
Pokrovsky, Ignatyev, Aladin, Plekhanov, Lvov and 
Zavoiko.î

THE PLOT AGAINST THE REVOLUTION 363 
This was the sinister band of right honourable conspirators 
who inspired Kornilov and were inspired by 
him, who secretly confabulated with him behind the 
backs of the people and applauded him at the Moscow 
Conference. Milyukov, head of the Party of Popular 
Freedom; Rodzyanko, head of the Council of Public Men; 
Tretyakov, head of the industrialists; Kerensky, head 
of the Socialist-Revolutionary defencists; Plekhanov, 
teacher of the Menshevik defencists; Aladin, agent of 
an unknown firm in Londonóthese were the hope and 
trust of the Kornilovites, the heart and nerves of the 
counter-revolution. 
Let us hope that history will not forget them and 
that their contemporaries will give them their deserts. 
Their Aims 
Their aims were ìclear and simpleî: to ìimprove 
the fighting efficiency of the armyî and ìcreate a healthy 
rearî for the purpose of ìsaving Russia.î 
As a means of improving the fighting efficiency of 
the army, ìI pointed,î says Kornilov, 
ìto the necessity of immediately restoring the death penalty 
in the theatre of military operations.î 
As a means of creating a healthy rear, ìI pointed,î 
Kornilov continues, 
ìto the necessity of extending the death penalty and the revolutionary 
military courts to the interior districts, on the assumption 
that no measures for restoring the fighting efficiency of the

J. V. S T A L I N 364 
army would have the desired effect so long as the army received 
as replenishments from the rear bands of dissolute, untrained and 
propagandized soldiers.î 
But that was not all. In Kornilovís opinion, ìin order 
to achieve the objects of the warî . . . it was necessary to 
have three armies: ìthe one in the trenches, and a labour 
army and a railway army in the rear. ìIn other words, 
it was ìnecessaryî to extend military ìdiscipline,î with 
all its implications, to the munitions factories and the 
railways; that is, it was ìnecessaryî to militarize them. 
And so, the death penalty at the front, the death 
penalty in the rear, militarization of the factories and 
railways, conversion of the country into a ìmilitaryî 
camp, and, as the coping stone, a military dictatorship 
presided over by Kornilovósuch, it transpires, were 
the aims of this gang of conspirators. 
These aims were expounded in a special ìreportî 
which had acquired notoriety even before the Moscow 
Conference. They are to be found in Kornilovís telegrams 
and ìmemorandumî under the designation of 
ìKornilovís demands.î 
Were these ìdemandsî known to the Kerensky government? 
They undoubtedly were. 
Was the Kerensky government in agreement with 
Kornilov? 
It evidently was. 
ìAfter signing the general report on measures for restoring 
the morale of the army and the rear, which had already been signed 
by Messrs. Savinkov and Filonenko,î Kornilov says, ìI submitted 
it to a private conference of the Provisional Government composed 
of Messrs. Kerensky, Nekrasov and Tereshchenko. After the re

THE PLOT AGAINST THE REVOLUTION 365 
port was examined, I was informed that the government agreed 
with all the measures proposed, but that their implementation 
was a question of the tempo of government measures.î 
Savinkov said the same thing when he told Kornilov 
on August 24: ìThe Provisional Government will comply 
with your demands within the next few days.î 
Were Kornilovís aims known to the Party of Popular 
Freedom? 
They undoubtedly were. 
Did it agree with Kornilov? 
It evidently did, for Rech, central organ of the Party 
of Popular Freedom, publicly stated that it ìfully shared 
General Kornilovís ideals.î 
Our Party was right when it asserted that the Party 
of Popular Freedom is a party of bourgeois dictatorship. 
Our Party was right when it asserted that the Kerensky 
government is a screen for this dictatorship. 
Now that the Kornilovites have recovered from the 
first blow the plotters in power have again begun to 
talk about ìimproving the fighting efficiency of the 
armyî and ìcreating a healthy rear.î 
The workers and soldiers must remember that ìimproving 
the fighting efficiency of the armyî and ìcreating 
a healthy rearî mean the death penalty in the rear and 
at the front. 
Their Method 
Their method was as ìclear and simpleî as their 
aims. It was to wipe out Bolshevism, disperse the Soviets, 
make Petrograd a special military governorship 
and disarm Kronstadt. In short, to smash the

J. V. S T A L I N 366 
revolution. It was for this that the Third Cavalry Corps 
was needed. It was for this that the Savage Division 
was needed. 
Here is what Savinkov said to Kornilov after discussing 
with him the boundaries of the Petrograd military 
governorship: 
ìThus, Lavr Georgievich, the Provisional Government will 
comply with your demands within the next few days, but the government 
is afraid that serious complications may arise in Petrograd. 
You know, of course, that serious action by the Bolsheviks 
is expected in Petrograd approximately on August 28 or 29. The 
publication of your demands, carried out through the Provisional 
Government, will, of course, serve as a spur to the Bolsheviksí 
action. Although we have sufficient troops at our disposal, we cannot 
rely upon them fully; the more so as we do not yet know what 
attitude the Soviet of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies will adopt 
towards the new law. It, too, may be opposed to the government, 
and i f so, we shall be unable to rely on our troops. I 
therefore request you to give orders to have the Third Cavalry 
Corps brought to Petrograd by the end of August and placed at 
the disposal of the Provisional Government. If, besides the Bolsheviks, 
the members of the Soviet of Workersí and Soldiersí 
Deputies should also take action, we shall have to operate against 
them too.î 
And Savinkov added that the operations must be 
most resolute and ruthless. To this General Kornilov 
replied that he ìcannot conceive of any other operations; 
if the Bolsheviks and the Soviet of Workersí and 
Soldiersí Deputies take action they will be suppressed 
with the utmost energy.î 
For the direct execution of these measures Kornilov 
assigned General Krymov, commander of the 
Third Cavalry Corps and the native division, ìtwo 
missionsî:

THE PLOT AGAINST THE REVOLUTION 367 
ì1) In the event of receiving from me (Kornilov), or directly 
on the spot, news that a Bolshevik action had begun, he was to 
move the corps immediately to Petrograd, occupy the city, disarm 
the units of the Petrograd garrison which joined the Bolshevik 
movement, disarm the population of Petrograd and disperse the 
Soviets; 
ì2) On the execution of this mission General Krymov was 
to send a brigade reinforced with artillery to Oranienbaum, which 
on its arrival was to call upon the Kronstadt garrison to dismantle 
the fortress and to cross to the mainland. 
ìThe Prime Ministerís consent to the dismantling of the Kronstadt 
fortress and the evacuation of the garrison was received on 
August 8, and a report to this effect, with the minute of the Prime 
Minister, was sent by Naval Headquarters to the Supreme Commanderís 
Chief of Staff with a letter from Admiral Maximov.î 
Such was the method adopted by this sinister band 
of plotters against the revolution and its conquests. 
The Kerensky government not only knew of this 
diabolical plan, but itself took part in elaborating it, 
and, together with Kornilov, was preparing to carry 
it out. 
Savinkov, who at that time was still Deputy Minister 
of War, openly admits this to have been the case, 
and his statement, known to everyone, has not yet been 
refuted by anyone. 
Here it is: 
ìI consider it my duty, for the sake of historical accuracy, 
to declare that on the instructions of the Prime Minister, I requested 
you (Kornilov) to send the Cavalry Corps to ensure the establishment 
of martial law in Petrograd and the suppression of any 
attempt at revolt against the Provisional Government, no matter 
from what quarter it might proceed. . . .î 
Clear, one would think.

J. V. S T A L I N 368 
Did the Cadet Party know about Kornilovís plan? 
It undoubtedly did. 
For on the eve of the Kornilov revolt, Rech, the 
partyís central organ, assiduously circulated provocative 
rumours of a ìBolshevik uprising,î thus paving the way 
for Kornilovís invasion of Petrograd and Kronstadt. 
And, as is evident from Kornilovís ìmemorandum,î 
a representative of the Cadet Party, Mr. Maklakov, 
ìpersonallyî took part in all the talks between Savinkov 
and Kornilov on the plans for the invasion of Petrograd. 
As far as we know, Maklakov did not then occupy any 
official post under or in the Provisional Government. 
In what other capacity, then, could he have taken part 
in these talks, if not as a representative of his party? 
Such are the facts. 
Our Party was right when it asserted that the Kerensky 
government is a government of bourgeois counterrevolution, 
that i t relies upon the Kornilovites and 
is distinguished from the latter only by a certain ìirresolution.î 
Our Party was right when it asserted that the ideological 
and political threads of the counter-revolution 
converge in the Central Committee of the Cadet Party. 
If the counter-revolutionary plan of the Petrograd 
and Mogilev plotters failed, it was not the fault of Kerensky 
and Kornilov, or of Maklakov and Savinkov, but 
of the very Soviets which they were preparing to 
ìdisperse,î but which they were not strong enough to 
withstand. 
Now that the Kornilovites have recovered 
and wormed their way into power with the aid 
of the compromisers, the question of fighting the

THE PLOT AGAINST THE REVOLUTION 369 
Soviets is again being raised. The workers and soldiers 
must remember that if they do not support the 
struggle of the Soviets against the Kornilovite government, 
they run the risk of falling under the iron heel 
of a military dictatorship. 
A Dictatorship of the Imperialist 
Bourgeoisie 
What is this ìcollective dictatorshipî which the 
plotters against the revolutionóKornilov and Milyukov, 
Aladin and Filonenko, Kerensky and Prince Lvov, 
Rodzyanko and Savinkovóconspired to establish? In 
what political form did they intend to clothe it? 
What political institutions did they consider necessary 
for the establishment and smooth working of this 
ìcollective dictatorshipî? 
Let the documents speak for themselves. 
ìGeneral Kornilov asked Filonenko whether he did not think 
that the only way out of the grave situation was the proclamation 
of a military dictatorship. 
ìFilonenko replied that considering the question practically, 
in the light of the existing situation, the only person he could 
conceive in the capacity of dictator was General Kornilov. But 
against a one-man dictatorship Filonenko advanced the following 
objection. General Kornilov lacked sufficient knowledge of the 
political situation, and therefore under his dictatorship there 
would arise what is usually called a camarilla. The democratic and 
republican elements would be bound to oppose this, and hence 
would oppose a one-man dictatorship. 
ìGeneral Kornilov: What then is to be done, seeing that the 
government is taking no measures? 
ìFilonenko: A way out might be the formation of a Directory. 
A small War Cabinet consisting of men of exceptionally strong

J. V. S T A L I N 370 
will should be formed within the government. This cabinet, which 
might be called the ëCouncil of National Defenceí or some other 
nameóthe name makes no differenceómust include, as an indispensable 
condition, Kerensky, General Kornilov and Savinkov. 
The cardinal object of this small cabinet should be the defence 
of the country. In such form, the Directory project ought to be 
acceptable to the government. 
ìKornilov: You are right. What is needed is a Directory, and 
as soon as possible. . .î (Novoye Vremya). 
Further: 
ìA project for the constitution of a ëCouncil of National 
Defenceí was drawn up, to consist of the Supreme Commander 
as Chairman and A. F. Kerensky as Vice Chairman, Mr. Savinkov, 
General Alexeyev, Admiral Kolchak and Mr. Filonenko. 
ìThis Council of Defence was to exercise a collective dictatorship, 
since it was recognized that a one-man dictatorship would 
be undesirableî (Obshcheye Delo). 
Thus, a Directory was the political form the Kornilov-
Kerensky ìcollective dictatorshipî was to have 
been clothed in. 
It should now be clear to everyone that in creating 
a Directory after the failure of the Kornilov ìrevolt,î 
Kerensky was establishing this same Kornilov dictatorship 
by other means. 
It should now be clear to everyone that when, at 
its celebrated night session, the decrepit Central Executive 
Committee declared in favour of Kerenskyís 
Directory, it voted for General Kornilovís counter-revolutionary 
plan. 
It should now be clear to everyone that when they 
were foaming at the mouth in advocacy of Kerenskyís 
Directory, the wiseacres of Delo Naroda were, without

THE PLOT AGAINST THE REVOLUTION 371 
realizing it themselves, betraying the revolution, to the 
glee of the overt and covert Kornilovites. 
Our Party was right when it asserted that the Directory 
was a masked form of counter-revolutionary 
dictatorship. 
But a Directory alone ìwill not carry you far.î 
The virtuosos of counter-revolution could not but realize 
that it was impossible to ìruleî a country which had 
tasted the fruits of democracy merely with the aid 
of a Directory, without some sort of ìdemocraticî cloak. 
A ìcollective dictatorshipî in the form of a Directoryó 
yes! But why a naked one? Would it not be better to 
cloak it with something in the nature of a ìPre-parliamentî? 
Let there be a ìdemocratic Pre-parliamentî 
and let it talk, so long as the machinery of state is in 
the hands of the Directory! We know that it was 
Mr. Zavoiko, Kornilovís attorney, Mr. Aladin, agent of 
an unknown firm in London, and Kornilov ìhimself,î 
Milyukovís friend, who were the first to suggest the 
idea of a ìPre-parliamentî as a prop and screen for 
the Directory, which was to be ìresponsibleî (no joke!) 
to this ìPre-parliament.î 
Let the document speak for itself. 
ìWhen insisting on the creation of a Directory, General Kornilov 
and his circle did not conceive it as not being responsible 
to the country. 
ìM. M. Filonenko was one of the firmest supporters of 
Aladinís proposal for a representative body to which the government 
would be unconditionally responsible pending the convocation 
of a Constituent Assembly. 
ìThis representative body, as Aladin conceived i t , was to 
consist of the Fourth State Duma (except for the Right wing and 
all the inactive members), the Left elements of the first three Dumas, 
a delegation from the Central Executive Committee of the

J. V. S T A L I N 372 
Soviet of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies (without limitation 
of representation of the parties) and ten to twenty of the most 
prominent revolutionary leaders, such as Breshko-Breshkovskaya, 
Kropotkin, Figner, etc., who were to be co-opted to the representative 
body by the body itself. Thus the idea of a ëPre-parliamentí 
was first conceived by A. F. Aladinî (Novoye Vremya). 
And so, the ìrepresentative bodyî that was to serve 
as a ìdemocraticî prop for the Kornilov-Kerensky 
ìcollective dictatorshipî was to be a ìPre-parliament.î 
A ìPre-parliamentî as the body to which the government 
was to be ìresponsibleî ìpending the convocationî 
of a Constituent Assembly; a ìPre-parliamentî that 
was to be a substitute for the Constituent Assembly until 
the latter was convened; a ìPre-parliamentî that was 
to be a substitute for the Constituent Assembly if the 
convocation of the latter were postponed; a ìPre-parliamentî 
that was to provide the ìlegal groundsî (rejoice, 
o ye lawyers!) for postponing the convocation of the 
Constituent Assembly; a ìPre-parliamentî as a means 
of torpedoing the Constituent Assemblyóthat was the 
sum and substance of the counter-revolutionary ìdemocracyî 
of the plotters against the revolution. 
It should now be clear to everyone that in ìsanctioningî 
the Kornilov ìPre-parliamentî which is to meet 
in two daysí time, Kerensky is merely carrying out by 
other means the counter-revolutionary plan of the plotters 
against the revolution. 
It should now be clear to everyone that in organizing 
the ìPre-parliamentî and in committing a number of 
forgeries for the purpose, the Avksentyevs and Dans 
worked for the overt and covert Kornilovites and against 
the revolution and its conquests.

THE PLOT AGAINST THE REVOLUTION 373 
It should now be clear to everyone that when they 
call for a Constituent Assembly and at the same time 
support the Kornilov ìPre-parliament,î the wiseacres 
of Delo Naroda are working to torpedo the Constituent 
Assembly. 
Kornilovís pupilsóthat is all they have proved capable 
of being, those ìresponsibleî chatterboxes at the 
ìDemocratic Conference,î the Tseretelis and Chernovs, 
the Avksentyevs and Dans. 
* 
* 
* 
First Conclusion 
It is evident from the documents examined that the 
ìKornilov affairî was not a ìrevoltî against the Provisional 
Government, and not simply the ìadventureî 
of an ambitious general, but a regular conspiracy against 
the revolution, an organized and thoroughly planned 
conspiracy. 
Its organizers and instigators were the counter-revolutionary 
elements among the generals, representatives 
of the Cadet Party, representatives of the ìpublic menî 
of Moscow, the more ìinitiatedî members of the Provisional 
Government, andólast but not least!ócertain 
representatives of certain embassies (about them the 
Kornilov ìmemorandumî says nothing). 
In a word, all those who ìjubilantlyî hailed Kornilov 
at the Moscow Conference as the ìrecognized leader 
of Russia.î 
The ìKornilov conspiracyî was a conspiracy of the 
imperialist bourgeoisie against the revolutionary classes 
of Russia, against the proletariat and the peasantry.

J. V. S T A L I N 374 
The aim of the conspiracy was to crush the revolution 
and establish a dictatorship of the imperialist bourgeoisie. 
There were divergencies among the plotters, but 
they were of a minor, quantitative order. They concerned 
the ìtempo of government measuresî: Kerensky wanted 
to act cautiously and circumspectly, Kornilov wanted 
to ìcrash through.î But they were in agreement on 
the main thing: the establishment of a dictatorship of 
the imperialist bourgeoisie in the form of the ìcollective 
dictatorshipî of a Directory, cloaked by a ìdemocraticî 
Pre-parliament as a bait for simpletons. 
What is the distinguishing feature of a dictatorship 
of the imperialist bourgeoisie? 
First of all, such a dictatorship means the rule of 
a bellicose and exploiting minority over the majority, 
the working people, who long for peace. Read Kornilovís 
ìmemorandum,î glance through the ìnegotiationsî with 
the members of the government, and you will find references 
there to measures for suppressing the revolution, 
to means of strengthening the bourgeois system 
and of prolonging the imperialist war, but you will not 
find a single word about the peasants, who are demanding 
land, about the workers, who are demanding bread, 
about the majority of the citizens, who are longing 
for peace. More, the whole ìmemorandumî is based on 
the assumption that the masses must be held in an iron 
vice, while the reins of government must be in the hands 
of a small group of dictators. 
Secondly, a dictatorship of the imperialist bourgeoisie 
is a clandestine, secret, disguised dictatorship 
designed to deceive the masses. Read the ìmemoran

THE PLOT AGAINST THE REVOLUTION 375 
dum,î and you will realize how zealously the conspirators 
endeavoured to conceal their sinister plans and 
underhand machinations not only from the masses, but 
even from their official colleagues and party ìfriends.î 
It was in order to hoodwink the masses that the plan for 
a ìdemocraticî Pre-parliament was concocted; for what 
democracy can there be with the death penalty in operation 
in the rear and at the front? It was in order to 
hoodwink the masses that the ìRussian Republicî was 
preserved; for what republic can there be when a little 
group of five dictators are the omnipotent power? 
Lastly, a dictatorship of the imperialist bourgeoisie 
is a dictatorship based on coercion of the masses. 
Such a dictatorship can have no ìreliableî support other 
than systematic coercion of the masses. The death penalty 
in the rear and at the front, militarization of the 
factories and railways, firing squadsóthese are the 
weapons that form the arsenal of such a dictatorship. 
ìDemocraticî deception reinforced by coercion; coercion 
concealed by ìdemocraticî deceptionósuch is the alpha 
and omega of the dictatorship of the imperialist 
bourgeoisie. 
It was precisely such a dictatorship that the conspirators 
wanted to establish in Russia. 
* 
* 
* 
Second Conclusion 
We are by no means inclined to seek the reasons 
for the conspiracy in the evil intent of individual heroes. 
Equally little are we inclined to attribute the conspiracy 
to a lust for power on the part of its initiators

J. V. S T A L I N 376 
The reasons for the counter-revolutionary conspiracy lie 
deeper. They must be sought for in the conditions of the 
imperialist war. They must be sought for in the requirements 
of this war. It is in the policy of launching an 
offensive at the front espoused by the Provisional Government 
in June that we must seek the soil from which the 
counter-revolutionary conspiracy sprang. Everywhere, 
in all belligerent countries, a policy of offensive in the 
atmosphere of imperialist war has given rise to the necessity 
of abolishing liberties, introducing military law, 
establishing ìiron disciplineî; for when maximum liberty 
prevails it is impossible with impunity to drive 
the masses to the shambles engineered by the vampires 
that prey on the world. Russia could not be an exception 
in this respect. 
In June, under the pressure of the imperialist 
cliques, home and Allied, an offensive at the front was 
proclaimed. The soldiers refused to go into action without 
protest. Regiments were disbanded, but this measure 
proved ineffective. The army was thereupon declared 
to be ìunfit to fight.î For the sake of ìimproving 
the fighting efficiencyî of the army, Kornilov (and not 
only Kornilov!) demanded the introduction of the death 
penalty at the front, and as a preliminary measure prohibited 
soldiersí meetings and assemblies. The soldiers 
and workers in the rear protested against this, and thereby 
intensified the indignation of the soldiers at the 
front. In retaliation, the generals at the front, supported 
by the bourgeoisie, demanded the extension of the 
death penalty to the rear and the militarization of the 
factories and railways. The plan for a dictatorship and the 
conspiracy were merely a logical development of these

THE PLOT AGAINST THE REVOLUTION 377 
measures. Such is the brief history of the ìrestoration 
of iron disciplineî and the development of the counterrevolution 
so picturesquely described in Kornilovís 
ìmemorandum.î The counter-revolution came from the 
front, having arisen out of the requirements of an offensive 
in the conditions of imperialist war. The aim of the conspiracy 
was to organize and legalize the already existing 
counter-revolution and to extend it to the whole of Russia. 
The June the Third die-hards of the tsarist Duma 
knew what they were up to when already in the beginning 
of June they demanded an ìimmediateî offensive 
in close coordination with the Allies. These old hands 
at counter-revolution knew that a policy of offensive 
must inevitably lead to counter-revolution. 
Our Party was right when in its declaration at the 
Congress of Soviets it warned that an offensive at the 
front would be a mortal threat to the revolution. 
In rejecting our Partyís declaration the defencist 
leaders once again proved their political immaturity and 
ideological dependence on the imperialist bourgeoisie. 
What follows from this? 
There can be only one conclusion. The conspiracy 
was a continuation of the counter-revolution which arose 
out of the requirements of the imperialist war and the 
policy of offensive. So long as this war and this policy 
continue there will always be the danger of counterrevolutionary 
plots. In order to safeguard the revolution 
from this danger, the imperialist war must be stopped, 
the possibility of a policy of offensive must be eliminated, 
and a democratic peace must be won. 
* 
* 
*

J. V. S T A L I N 378 
Third Conclusion 
Kornilov and his ìaccomplicesî have been arrested. 
The investigating committee set up by the government 
is working at ìtop speed.î The Provisional Government 
is posing as the supreme judge. Kornilov and 
his ìaccomplicesî have been assigned the role of ìrebels,î 
and the Rech and Novoye Vremya gentry the role 
of Kornilovís defence counsel. ìIt will be an interesting 
trial,î say the news-fans. ìThe trial will result in 
many important revelations,î remarks Delo Naroda 
with an air of profundity. 
Revolt against whom? Against the revolution, of 
course! But where is the revolution? In the Provisional 
Government, of course; for the revolt was raised against 
the Provisional Government. And of whom does this 
revolution consist? Of the ìeverlastingî Kerensky, representatives 
of the Cadet Party, representatives of 
the ìpublic menî of Moscow, and a certain Siróó, 
who is behind these gentlemen. First voice: ìBut Kornilov 
has been left out!î Second voice: ìKornilov 
doesnít come into it. Heís been ordered into the 
dock.î . . . 
But let us drop the curtain. Kornilov did indeed 
hatch a conspiracy against the revolution. But he was 
not alone. He had instigatorsóMilyukov and Rodzyanko, 
Lvov and Maklakov, Filonenko and Nabokov. 
He had collaboratorsóKerensky and Savinkov, Alexeyev 
and Kaledin. Does it not sound like a fairy tale 
that these gentlemen and their ilk are now serenely 
going about at large, and not only going about at large, 
but ìrulingî the country, and under a constitution

THE PLOT AGAINST THE REVOLUTION 379 
framed by Kornilov ìhimselfî? And, lastly, Kornilov 
had the support of the Russian and the British and 
French imperialist bourgeoisie, in whose interests all 
these Kornilovite collaborators are now ìrulingî the 
country. Is it not clear that to try Kornilov alone is 
a wretched and ridiculous farce? On the other hand, 
how can the imperialist bourgeoisie, the principal culprit 
in the plot against the revolution, be brought to 
trial? Thereís a problem for the sapient craftsmen in the 
Ministry of Justice! 
Obviously, the point is not the farcical trial. The 
point is that, after the Kornilov revolt, after the sensational 
arrests and the ìstrictî inquiry, it ìturns outî 
that the power is again wholly and solely in the hands of 
the Kornilovites. That which Kornilov tried to achieve 
by force of arms is now being gradually but persistently 
achieved by the Kornilovites in power, although by 
other means. Even Kornilovís ìPre-parliamentî has 
been brought into being. 
The point is that, after the successful ìliquidationî 
of the plot against the revolution, it ìturns outî that 
we are again in the power of the plottersí general staff, 
of this same Kerensky and this same Tereshchenko, of 
these same representatives of the Cadet Party and the 
ìpublic men,î of these same Sirs and Sir-like generals. 
Only Kornilov is missing. But, then, is Sir M. V. Alexeyev, 
who has his finger in every important government 
affair, and who, it transpires, is about to represent 
Russiaóor is it England?óat the Entente conference, 
any worse than Kornilov? 
The point is that this ìgovernmentî of conspirators 
cannot be tolerated any longer.

J. V. S T A L I N 380 
The point is that this ìgovernmentî of conspirators 
cannot be trusted without the risk of exposing the revolution 
to the mortal danger of fresh conspiracies. 
Yes, the plotters against the revolution must be 
brought to trial. But it must not be a travesty, nor a 
mock trial, it must be a genuine trial, before a peopleís 
court. And the object of the trial must be to take the 
power out of the hands of the imperialist bourgeoisie, 
in whose interest the present ìgovernmentî of conspirators 
is operating. The object of the trial must be 
thoroughly to purge the administration of Kornilovite 
elements, from top to bottom. 
We have said that unless the imperialist war is 
stopped and a democratic peace achieved it will be impossible 
to safeguard the revolution from counter-revolutionary 
conspiracies. But so long as the present ìgovernmentî 
is in power it is useless to dream of a democratic 
peace. In order to achieve such a peace this 
government must be ìremovedî and another one ìinstalled.î 
This requires transferring the power to other, the 
revolutionary-classes, the proletariat and the revolutionary 
peasantry. It requires concentrating the power in 
the revolutionary mass organizations, the Soviets of 
Workersí, Soldiersí and Peasantsí Deputies. 
It was these classes and organizations, and they 
alone, that saved the revolution from the Kornilov conspiracy. 
And it is they that will ensure its victory. 
It is in this that the trial of the imperialist bourgeoisie 
and its agents, the conspirators, will consist. 
* 
* 
*

THE PLOT AGAINST THE REVOLUTION 381 
Two Questions 
First question. A few weeks ago, when the scandalous 
revelations about the governmentís (not Kornilovís, but 
the governmentís!) plot against the revolution first began 
to appear in the papers, the Bolshevik group submitted a 
question in the Central Executive Committee addressed to 
Avksentyev and Skobelev, who were members of the Provisional 
Government at the time of tbe ìKornilov epic.î 
It concerned the evidence which Avksentyev and Skobelev, 
as a matter of honour and of duty to the democracy, 
should have given on the revelations accusing 
the Provisional Government. Our groupís question was 
seconded by the Bureau of the Central Executive Committee 
that very same day, and thus became the question 
of ìthe whole revolutionary democracy.î Since then a 
month has passed, revelation follows revelation, each 
more scandalous than the other, but Avksentyev and 
Skobelev continue to remain tongue-tied and say nothing, 
as though the matter did not concern them. Do not 
our readers think that it is time these ìresponsibleî citizens 
heeded the elementary rules of decency and replied 
at last to a question addressed to them by ìthe whole 
revolutionary democracy?î 
Second question. At the very height of the new revelations 
about the Kerensky government, Delo Naroda 
urged its readers to ìbe patientî with this government 
and ìwaitî until the Constituent Assembly was convened. 
Of course, it is amusing to hear appeals to ìbe patientî 
coming from people who with their own hands created 
this government for the purpose of ìsaving the country.î 
Is this why they created this governmentóonly to grit

J. V. S T A L I N 382 
their teeth and ìbe patientî with it for a ìshort whileî? . . . 
But what does ìbeing patientî with the Kerensky government 
mean? It means making plotters against the revolution 
the arbiters of the destiny of a nation of many millions. 
It means making agents of the imperialist bourgeoisie 
the arbiters of war and peace. It means making tireless 
counter-revolutionaries the arbiters of the Constituent 
Assembly. What name should we give to a ìsocialistî 
party which links its political destiny with that of a 
ìgovernmentî of plotters against the revolution? It is 
said that the leaders of the Socialist-Revolutionary 
Party are ìnaive.î It is said that Delo Naroda is ìshortsighted.î 
There is no doubt that the ìresponsibleî leaders 
of the Socialist-Revolutionaries do not lack these 
ìvirtues.î But . . . do not our readers think that naÔvetÈ 
in politics is a crime bordering on treason? 
Rabochy Put, Nos. 27, 28 and 30, 
October 4, 5 and 7, 1917 
Signed: K. Stalin

WHO IS TORPEDOING 
THE CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY? 
While the compromising windbags pour out speeches 
about the Pre-parliament, and their fellow travellers are 
fighting the Bolsheviks and accusing them of torpedoing 
the Constituent Assembly, the old hands at counterrevolution 
are already making a preliminary trial of 
strength with a view to really torpedoing the Constituent 
Assembly. 
Only a week ago the leaders of the ìDon Cossacksî 
proposed that the elections to the Constituent Assembly 
be postponed on the grounds that ìthe population is 
unprepared.î 
Two days later Dyen, a close collaborator of the 
Cadet Rech, blurted out that ìthe wave of agrarian 
disorders . . . might cause the postponement of the Constituent 
Assembly elections.î 
And yesterday the news was wired that the ìpublic 
menî in Moscow, the same gentry who now direct the 
Provisional Government, also ìconsider it impossibleî to 
hold elections to the Constituent Assembly: 
ìState Duma member N. N. Lvov stated that i t would be 
impossible, for technical and political reasons, to hold elections 
just now owing to the state of anarchy in the country. And

J. V. S T A L I N 
FROM MARX 
TO MAO 
 
NOT FOR 
COMMERCIAL 
DISTRIBUTION 
384 
Kuzmin-Karavayev added that the government was not ready 
for the Constituent Assembly, no bills having yet been drafted.î 
Evidently the bourgeoisie intend to frustrate the 
elections to the Constituent Assembly. 
Evidently, now that the bourgeoisie has entrenched 
itself in the Provisional Government and has created for 
itself a ìdemocraticî camouflage in the shape of the 
counter-revolutionary Pre-parliament, it considers itself 
strong enough to ìpostponeî once again the convocation 
of a Constituent Assembly. 
What have Messieurs the compromisers of Izvestia and 
Delo Naroda to oppose to this danger? 
What have they to oppose to the Provisional Government 
if it, ìheeding the voice of the countryî and following 
in the footsteps of the ìpublic men,î postpones the 
Constituent Assembly elections? 
The notorious Pre-parliament perhaps? But, created 
in accordance with Kornilovís plan and intended for the 
purpose of concealing the ulcers of the Kerensky government, 
the Pre-parliament was called into being precisely 
with the object of serving as a substitute for the Constituent 
Assembly, should its convocation be postponed. 
Of what value, then, can this Kornilov abortion be in the 
fight for a Constituent Assembly? 
The decrepit Central Executive Committee, perhaps? 
But what authority can this institution have, when it is 
divorced from the masses and lashes out at the railwaymen 
one day and at the Soviets another? 
The ìgreat Russian revolution,î perhaps, about which 
Delo Naroda cants so revoltingly? But the wiseacres 
of Delo Naroda themselves say that revolution is incompatible 
with a Constituent Assembly (ìeither revolu

WHO IS TORPEDOING THE CONSTITUENT ASSEMBLY? 385 
tion or a Constituent Assemblyî!). What force can empty 
talk about the ìmight of the revolutionî have in the 
fight for a Constituent Assembly? 
Where is the force capable of opposing the counterrevolutionary 
efforts of the bourgeoisie? 
That force is the growing Russian revolution. The compromisers 
have no faith in it. But that does not prevent 
it from growing, from spreading to the rural districts 
and sweeping away the basis of landlord rule. 
By fighting the Congress of Soviets85 and strengthening 
the Kornilov Pre-parliament, the Mensheviks and 
Socialist-Revolutionaries are helping the bourgeoisie to 
torpedo the Constituent Assembly. But let them know 
that if they continue in this course they will have to deal 
with the growing revolution. 
Rabochy Put, No. 28, 
October 5, 1917 
Editorial

THE COUNTER-REVOLUTION IS MOBILIZINGó 
PREPARE TO RESIST 
The revolution lives. Having thwarted the Kornilov 
ìrevoltî and stirred up the front, having swept the 
towns and awakened the industrial districts, it is now 
spreading to the countryside and sweeping away the hated 
pillars of landlord rule. 
The last prop of compromise is falling. The fight 
against the Kornilov revolt dispelled the compromise 
illusions of the workers and soldiers and rallied them 
around our Party. The fight against the landlords will 
dispel the compromise illusions of the peasants and muster 
them around the workers and soldiers. 
In a fight against the defencists, and in spite of them, 
a revolutionary front of workers, soldiers and peasants 
is being built. In a fight against the compromisers, and 
in spite of them, this front is growing and becoming 
stronger. 
The revolution is mobilizing its forces and expelling 
the Menshevik and Socialist-Revolutionary compromisers 
from its midst. 
At the same time the counter-revolution is also mobilizing 
its forces. 
The Cadet- Party, that hotbed of counter-revolution, 
is the first to start the fight by agitating on behalf

THE COUNTER-REVOLUTION IS MOBILISINGóPREPARE TO RESIST! 387 
of Kornilov. Having taken over the power and unchained 
Suvorinís yelping curs, having cloaked itself in 
the mantle of the Socialist-Revolutionary-Menshevik- 
Kornilov Pre-parliament and assured itself the support 
of the counter-revolutionary generals, the Cadet Party 
is plotting another Kornilov revolt and threatening to 
crush the revolution. 
The Moscow ìUnion of Public Men,î that union of 
lockout-men and of the ìgaunt hand of famine,î which 
helped Kornilov to strangle the soldiers and workers 
and to disperse the Soviets in the rear and the Committees 
at the front, is convening three days from now 
a ìsecond Moscow Conference,î to which it is urgently 
inviting representatives of the ìUnion of Cossack 
Troops.î 
At the front, particularly in the South and the West, 
a secret league of Kornilovite generals is feverishly organizing 
a new attack upon the revolution, and is mustering 
all the forces suitable for this foul ìwork.î . . . 
And the Kerensky government, the government which 
in conjunction with Kornilov hatched the plot against 
the revolution, is preparing to flee to Moscow in order, 
after surrendering Petrograd to the Germans, to hatch 
another and more formidable plot against the revolution 
in conjunction with the Ryabushinskys and Buryshkins, 
the Kaledins and Alexeyevs. 
There is no possible room for doubt. In opposition 
to the front of revolution, a front of counter-revolution, 
a front of the capitalists and landlords, of the Kerensky 
government and the Pre-parliament is forming and gaining 
strength. The counter-revolutionaries are plotting another 
Kornilov revolt.

J. V. S T A L I N 388 
The first Kornilov conspiracy was thwarted; but the 
counter-revolution was not crushed. It merely retreated, 
hid behind the back of the Kerensky government and entrenched 
itself in new positions. 
The second Kornilov conspiracy, now being hatched, 
must be utterly crushed in order to safeguard the revolution 
for good. 
The first counter-revolutionary offensive was thwarted 
by the workers and soldiers, by the Soviets in the rear 
and the Committees at the front. 
The Soviets and Committees must take every measure 
to ensure that the second counter-revolutionary offensive 
is swept away by the full might of the great revolution. 
Let the workers and soldiers know, let the peasants 
and sailors know that the fight is for peace and bread, 
for land and liberty, against the capitalists and landlords, 
against the profiteers and marauders, against the 
traitors and treasonmongers, against all who do not want 
to put an end once and for all to the Kornilovites who 
are now organizing. 
The Kornilovites are mobilizing. Prepare to resist! 
Rabochy Put, No. 32, 
October 10, 1917 
Editorial

WHO NEEDS THE PRE-PARLIAMENT? 
When, several months ago, Kornilov planned the 
dispersal of the Soviets and the establishment of a military 
dictatorship, he decided at the same time to convene 
a ìdemocraticî Pre-parliament. 
What for? 
In order to substitute the Pre-parliament for the 
Soviets, to use it to mask the counter-revolutionary nature 
of Kornilovism and to deceive the people as to the 
real aims of the Kornilov ìreforms.î 
After the ìliquidationî of the Kornilov revolt, Kerensky 
and the Cadets, Chernov and the Moscow industrialists 
organized a ìnewî coalition dictatorship of the 
bourgeoisie and decided at the same time to convene 
the Kornilov Pro-parliament. 
What for? 
Was it for the purpose of fighting the Soviets? Was 
it for the purpose of masking Kerenskyism, which differs 
very little from Kornilovism? Avksentyev assures us that 
the Pre-parliament was convened for the ìsalvation of 
the fatherland.î Chernov ìdevelopsî Avksentyevís idea 
and assures us that the aim of the Pre-parliament is the 
ìsalvation of the country and the republic.î But Kornilov 
also thought of ìsaving the country and the republicî

J. V. S T A L I N 390 
when he decided to establish a military dictatorship and 
mask it with a Pre-parliament. In what way does the 
Avksentyev-Chernov ìsalvationî differ from Kornilovís? 
Well then, for what purpose has the present Kornilov 
abortion, the so-called Pre-parliament, been called into 
being? 
Let us listen to what Mr. Adzhemov, one of the original 
architects of the Pre-parliament, a member of the 
Central Committee of the Cadet Party, former member 
of the Provisional Committee of the State Duma, and 
now a member of the Pre-parliament, has to say. Let us 
listen to him, because he is more candid than others: 
ìIt should be the primary task of the Pre-parliament to lay 
a foundation for the government, to invest it with power, 
which, of course, it does not now possess.î 
But for what purpose does the government need this 
ìpowerî? Against whom is it to be directed? 
Listen further: 
ìThe cardinal question is, will the Pre-parliament pass the 
rehearsal, will it be able to administer the necessary rebuff to the 
Soviets of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies? It is beyond doubt 
that the Soviet and the Pre-parliament are adversaries, just as two 
months from now the Constituent Assembly and these organizations 
will be adversaries. If the Pre-parliament stands the test, 
the work may go with a swingî (see Sundayís Dyen). 
Well, that puts it clearly! Thatís frank and, if you 
like, honest. 
The Pre-parliament will give the government ìpowerî 
in order to ìadminister a rebuff to the Soviets,î because 
the Pre-parliament, and it alone, can be an ìadversaryî 
of the Soviets.

WHO NEEDS THE PRE-PARLIAMENT? 391 
Now we know that the Pre-parliament has been called 
into being not for the ìsalvation of the country,î but 
to fight the Soviets. Now we know that the renegades from 
the ranks of democracy, the Mensheviks and Socialist- 
Revolutionaries, have ensconced themselves in the Preparliament 
not in order to ìsave the revolutionî but to 
help the bourgeoisie fight the Soviets. It is not for nothing 
they are desperately opposing a Congress of Soviets. 
ìIf the Pre-parliament stands the test, the work may 
go with a swing,î Mr. Adzhemov hopes. 
The workers and soldiers will do everything in their 
power to see that the Kornilov abortion does not ìstand 
the test,î and that its foul ìworkî does not ìgo with a 
swing.î 
Rabochy Put, No. 32, 
October 10, 1917 
Unsigned

SOVIET POWER 
In the first days of the revolution the slogan ìAll 
power to the Soviets!î was a novelty. ìSoviet powerî 
was set up in opposition to the power of the Provisional 
Government for the first time in April. The majority in 
the capital were still in favour of a Provisional Government 
without Milyukov and Guchkov. In June, this slogan 
secured the demonstrative recognition of the overwhelming 
majority of the workers and soldiers. The Provisional 
Government was already isolated in the capital. 
In July, the slogan ìAll power to the Soviets!î was the 
issue in a struggle which flared up between the revolutionary 
majority in the capital and the Lvov-Kerensky 
government. The compromising Central Executive Committee, 
relying on the backwardness of the provinces, 
went over to the side of the government. The struggle 
ended in favour of the government. The adherents of 
Soviet power were outlawed. There set in a dead season 
of ìsocialistî repressions and ìrepublicanî jailings, of 
Bonapartist intrigues and military plots, of firing squads 
at the front and ìconferencesî in the rear. This went on 
until the latter part of August. Towards the end of August 
the picture radically changed. The Kornilov revolt called 
forth the exertion of all the energies of the revolution.

SOVIET POWER 393 
The Soviets in the rear and the Committees at the front, 
which were almost defunct in July and August, ìsuddenlyî 
revived and took over power in Siberia and the 
Caucasus, in Finland and the Urals, in Odessa and Kharkov. 
Had this not been so, had power not been taken, 
the revolution would have been crushed. Thus, ìSoviet 
power,î proclaimed in April by a ìsmall groupî of Bolsheviks 
in Petrograd, at the end of August obtained the 
almost universal recognition of the revolutionary classes 
of Russia. 
It is now clear to all that ìSoviet powerî is not only 
a popular slogan, but the only sure weapon in the struggle 
for the victory of the revolution, the only way out 
from the present situation. 
The time has at last come to put the slogan ìAll 
power to the Soviets!î into practice. 
But what is ìSoviet power,î and how does it differ 
from every other power? 
It is said that transferring power to the Soviets 
means forming a ìhomogeneousî democratic government, 
organizing a new ìcabinetî consisting of ìsocialistî 
Ministers, and, in general, ìseriously changingî the composition 
of the Provisional Government. But that is not 
true. It is not at all a matter of replacing some members of 
the Provisional Government by others. What matters is to 
make the new, the revolutionary classes the masters of 
the country. What matters is to transfer power to the proletariat 
and revolutionary peasantry. But for this, 
a mere change of government is far from enough. What 
is needed, first of all, is to purge thoroughly all government 
departments and institutions, to expel the Kornilovites 
from all of them, and to place loyal members of

J. V. S T A L I N 394 
the working class and the peasantry everywhere. Then, 
and only then, will it be possible to say that power 
has been transferred to the Soviets ìcentrally and locally.î 
What is the reason for the notorious helplessness of 
the ìsocialistî Ministers in the Provisional Government? 
What is the reason for the fact that these Ministers have 
proved to be wretched playthings in the hands of men 
outside the Provisional Government (recall the ìreportsî 
Chernov and Skobelev, Zarudny and Peshekhonov made 
at the ìDemocratic Conferenceî!)? The reason is, first of 
all, that, instead of their directing their departments, 
their departments directed them. The reason is, among 
others, that every department is a fortress, in which are 
still entrenched bureaucrats of tsarist times who transform 
the pious wishes of the Ministers into an ìempty sound,î 
and who are ready to sabotage every revolutionary measure 
of the authorities. In order that power may pass to 
the Soviets actually and not nominally, those fortresses 
must be captured, the lackeys of the Cadet-tsarist regime 
must be expelled from them and replaced by elected and 
recallable officials loyal to the revolution. 
Power to the Soviets implies a thorough purge of 
every government institution in the rear and at the 
front, from top to bottom. 
Power to the Soviets implies that every ìchiefî in 
the rear and at the front must be elected and subject 
to recall. 
Power to the Soviets implies that all ìpersons in 
authorityî in town and country, in the army and navy, 
in ìdepartmentsî and ìestablishments,î on the railways 
and in post and telegraph offices must be elected and 
subject to recall.

SOVIET POWER 395 
Power to the Soviets means the dictatorship of the 
proletariat and revolutionary peasantry. 
This dictatorship differs radically from the dictatorship 
of the imperialist bourgeoisie, from that dictatorship 
which Kornilov and Milyukov tried only very recently 
to establish with the benevolent help of Kerensky and 
Tereshchenko. 
Dictatorship of the proletariat and revolutionary 
peasantry implies the dictatorship of the labouring majority 
over the exploiting minority, over the landlords and 
capitalists, the profiteers and bankers, for the sake of 
a democratic peace, for the sake of workersí control over 
production and distribution, for the sake of land for the 
peasants, for the sake of bread for the people. 
Dictatorship of the proletariat and revolutionary 
peasantry implies an open, mass dictatorship, exercised in 
the sight of all, without plots and underhand dealings. 
For such a dictatorship has no reason to hide the fact that 
it will show no mercy to lockout capitalists who swell 
unemployment by various ìunburdenings,î or to profiteering 
bankers who force up the price of food and cause 
starvation. 
Dictatorship of the proletariat and peasantry 
implies a dictatorship which does not coerce the masses, 
a dictatorship by the will of the masses, a dictatorship 
for the purpose of curbing the will of the enemies of 
the masses. 
That is the class essence of the slogan ìAll power to 
the Soviets!î 
Developments in home and foreign affairs, the protracted 
war and the longing for peace, the defeats at the 
front and the need to defend the capital, the rottenness of

J. V. S T A L I N 396 
the Provisional Government and its projected ìremovalî 
to Moscow, economic disruption and starvation, unemployment 
and exhaustionóall this is irresistibly impelling 
the revolutionary classes of Russia to power. It means 
that the country is already ripe for the dictatorship of 
the proletariat and revolutionary peasantry. 
The time has at last come for the revolutionary slogan 
ìAll power to the Soviets!î to be put into effect. 
Rabochy Put, No. 35, 
October 13, 1917 
Editorial

A STUDY IN BRAZENNESS 
Driven to the wall by the onslaught of the revolution, 
the government of bourgeois timeservers is striving to 
wriggle out of it by handing out false assurances that it 
had no intention of fleeing from Petrograd and was not 
thinking of surrendering the capital. 
Only yesterday it was being publicly stated (Izvestia!) 
that the government was ìremovingî to Moscow, as it considered 
the position of the capital ìprecarious.î Only yesterday 
there was open talk (ìDefence Committeeî!86) of ìsurrenderingî 
Petrograd, and the government was demanding 
the removal of the guns from the approaches to the capital. 
Only yesterday landlord Rodzyanko, the confederate 
of Kerensky and Kornilov in the plot against the revolution, 
was welcoming the governmentís ìsurrenderî decision, 
for he wanted to see Petrograd, the navy and the 
Soviets perish. Only yesterday ìLondonî was associating 
itself with this decision, for it wanted the government 
speedily to rid itself of Petrograd and the navy. All that 
was so only yesterday. . . . But today the panic-stricken 
timeservers in the government are retreating in disarray 
in face of the resolute determination of the navy and garrison 
to defend the capital and, stammering and contradicting 
one another, they are cravenly trying to cover

J. V. S T A L I N 398 
up the truth and to vindicate themselves in the eyes of 
the revolution, which only yesterday they were preparing, 
so clumsily and ineffectively, to betray. 
But Kerenskyís ìcategoricalî statement that the 
ìremovalî has been postponed until the spring is refuted 
by Kishkinís equally categorical statement that some 
of the government offices ìmight be transferred to Moscow 
now.î And B. Bogdanov, spokesman of the ìDefence 
Committeeî (who is anything but a Bolshevik!), declares 
just as categorically that ìthe government evinced a 
desire to leave Petrograd, and wide sections of the democracy 
perceived in the fact that the government was going the 
possibility that Petrograd would be surrenderedî (Izvestia). 
This apart from the fact that according to the reports in 
the evening papers ìthe supporters of the Provisional 
Governmentís removal to Moscow had . . . a preponderance 
of votesî (Russkiye Vedomosti). 
These miserable pigmies of the Provisional Government! 
They have been deceiving the people all the time. 
What else could they fall back on except deceiving the 
masses again in their attempt to cover up their disorderly 
retreat? 
But timeservers would not be timeservers if they confined 
themselves to deceit. Kerensky is retreating and resorting 
to deception to cover up his retreat; but at the 
same time he hurls accusations, plainly hinting at our 
Party, and rants about ìrecrudescence of rioting,î ìdangerous 
enemies of the revolution,î ìblackmail,î ìperversion 
of the masses,î ìhands stained with the blood of 
innocent victimsî and so on. 
Kerensky denouncing ìenemies of the revolution!îó 
Kerensky, who with Kornilov and Savinkov plotted

A STUDY IN BRAZENNESS 399 
against the revolution and the Soviets and by fraudulent 
means got the Third Cavalry Corps to march on the 
capital. 
Kerensky denouncing ìrecrudescence of riotingî!ó 
Kerensky, who by raising the price of bread drove the 
rural population to rioting and incendiarism. Read the 
defencist Socialist-Revolutionary Vlast Naroda and judge 
for yourselves: 
ìSome of our correspondents claim that the present disorders 
are due to the raising of the fixed prices. The new prices immediately 
caused a general rise in the cost of living. This is evoking 
discontent, resentment and excessive irritation, which make the 
mob more prone than before to start riotingî (No. 140). 
Kerensky denouncing ìperversion of the massesî!ó 
Kerensky, who defiled the revolution and perverted its 
morals by reviving the secret police and political detective 
services with vermin like Vonlyarlyarsky and Shchukin 
at their head. . . . 
Kerensky denouncing ìblackmailî!óKerensky, whose 
whole regime is one long tale of blackmailing the democracy, 
and who openly blackmailed the ìDemocratic 
Conferenceî with the false story of a military landing 
on the Finnish coast, in which he successfully competed 
with General Khabalov. . . . 
Kerensky denouncing ìhands stained with the blood 
of innocent victimsî!óKerensky, whose own hands are 
really stained with the innocent blood of tens of thousands 
of soldiers, the victims of the adventurist offensive 
launched at the front in June. . . . 
There is a limit to everything, they say. But obviously 
there is no limit to the brazenness of the bourgeois 
timeservers. . . .

J. V. S T A L I N 400 
Izvestia reports that in the ìCouncil of the Republicî 
Kerensky was greeted with ìloud and prolonged applause 
from all benches.î We expected nothing else from the 
servile Pre-parliament, that abortion of Kornilovism and 
godchild of Kerensky. 
But be it known to these gentry, to all of them, 
both those who are secretly plotting reprisals against 
the ìLeftsî and those who are applauding these reprisals 
in advance, that when the decisive hour strikes they will 
all equally be called to account by the revolution which 
they are seeking to betray, but which they will not succeed 
in hoodwinking. 
Rabochy Put, No. 37, 
October 15, 1917 
Editorial

BLACKLEGS OF THE REVOLUTION 
ìThe Soviets and Committees must be abolished,î 
said Kaledin the Kornilovite at the Moscow Conference 
amidst the thunderous applause of the Cadets. 
True, replied Tsereteli the compromiser, but it is too 
early yet, for ìthis scaffolding must not be removed before 
the edifice of the free revolution (i.e., counter-revolution?) 
is completed.î 
This was at the Moscow Conference in the beginning 
of August, when the counter-revolutionary plot of Kornilov 
and Rodzyanko, Milyukov and Kerensky was first 
taking shape. 
That plot did not ìcome offî; the political strike of 
the Moscow workers thwarted it. Nevertheless, a coalition 
of Tsereteli and Milyukov, Kerensky and Kaledin was 
formedóa coalition against the Bolshevik workers and 
soldiers. And it turned out that the coalition was merely 
a screen behind which a real plot against the Soviets 
and Committees, against the revolution and its conquests 
was taking shape, a plot which came to a head at the 
end of August. 
Could the Socialist-Revolutionaries and Mensheviks 
have known that in praising a coalition with the ìvirile 
forcesî of the Moscow Conference they were working for

J. V. S T A L I N 402 
the Kornilov conspirators? Could the petty-bourgeois liberals 
of Delo Naroda and the trumpeters of the bourgeoisie 

of Izvestia have known that in ìisolatingî the Bolsheviks 
and undermining the Soviets and Committees they 
were working for counter-revolution and enrolling as 
blacklegs of the revolution? 
The Kornilov revolt exposed all the cards. It exposed 
the counter-revolutionary nature of the Cadets and of the 
coalition with the Cadets. It revealed what a danger the 
alliance of the Cadets and the generals was to the revolution. 
It convincingly proved that had it not been for the 
Soviets in the rear and the Committees at the front, 
against which the defencists were plotting with Kaledin, 
the revolution would have been crushed. 
We know that in the grave hour of the Kornilov 
revolt the Mensheviks and Socialist-Revolutionaries had 
to put themselves under the protection of those very 
Kronstadt sailors and ìBolshevikî Soviets and Committees 
against whom they had been forming a coalition 
with the Kaledins and the other ìvirile forces.î 
The lesson was a valuable one, and certainly impressive. 
Butóthe memory of man is short. And particularly 
short is the memory of the renegades of Izvestia and the 
spineless Delo Naroda. 
Only a little more than a month has elapsed since 
the Kornilov revolt. One would have thought that Kornilovism 
was dead and done with. But by the ìwill of fateî 
and of Kerensky we have in this short period entered a 
new phase of Kornilovism. Kornilov is ìunder arrest.î But 
the ringleaders of Kornilovism are in power. The old 
coalition with the ìvirile forcesî was disrupted. But in

BLACKLEGS OF THE REVOLUTION 403 
its stead a new coalition with the Kornilovites has been 
formed. The Moscow Conference did not become the ìLong 
Parliamentî Cossack Ataman Karaulov dreamed of. But 
in its stead a Kornilov Pre-parliament has been constituted 
with the mission of ìreplacing the old Soviet organization.î 
The first conference of the Blacks in Moscow 
has left the scene. But in its stead a second conference 
of the Blacks opened in Moscow the other day, and 
its leader, landlord Rodzyanko, publicly declares that he 
ìwould be glad if the Soviets and the navy perished and 
Petrograd were captured by the Germans.î The government 
makes a pretence of putting Kornilov on trial. Actually, 
it is paving the way for Kornilovís ìadventî by conspiring 
with Kornilov and Kaledin, working for the withdrawal 
of the revolutionary troops from Petrograd, preparing 
to flee to Moscow, making ready to surrender 
Petrograd, and slobbering over ìour gallant Allies,î who 
are looking forward impatiently to the destruction of the 
Baltic Fleet, the capture of Petrograd by the Germans, 
and . . . the ascension to the throne of Sir Lavr 
Kornilov. . . . 
Is it not evident that we are on the eve of a new wave 
of Kornilovism, one more ominous than the first? 
Is it not evident that what is required of us now is 
the utmost vigilance and the fullest readiness for battle? 
Is it not evident that the Soviets and revolutionary 
Committees are needed now more than ever? 
Where lies the salvation from Kornilovism, where is 
the force of the revolution that is capable of crushing 
the impending counter-revolutionary assault with the full 
might of a mass movement? 
Not in the servile Pre-parliament, surely!

J. V. S T A L I N 404 
Is it not evident that salvation lies only in the Soviets 
and the worker and soldier masses who stand behind 
them? 
Is it not evident that the salvation of the revolution 
from the impending counter-revolution is the mission of 
the Soviets, and of the Soviets alone? 
One would think that it was the duty of revolutionaries 
to cherish and strengthen these organizations, to 
rally the worker and peasant masses around them, to 
link them together in regional and all-Russian congresses. 
But the Izvestia and Delo Naroda turncoats have forgotten 
the ìsevere ordealî of the Kornilov days and for 
several days now have been engaged in discrediting and 
hounding the Soviets, in torpedoing the regional and all- 
Russian Soviet Congresses, in disorganizing and wrecking 
the Soviets. 
ìThe role of the local Soviets is declining,î says Izvestia. 
ìThe Soviets have ceased to be organizations of the whole democracy. 
. . . 
ìWe want to substitute for the temporary Soviet organization 
a permanent, all-round and all-embracing organization of 
the structure of national and local life. When the autocracy fell 
and with it the whole bureaucratic system, we erected the Soviets 
of Deputies as temporary huts in which the entire democracy 
could find shelter. Now, in place of the huts, the permanent brick 
building of the new system is being erected, and naturally people 
are gradually leaving the huts for the more convenient premises 
as each storey is built.î 
Thus speaks the shameless Izvestia, organ of the Central 
Executive Committee of the Soviets, which is dragging 
on its wretched existence owing to the infinite 
tolerance of the Soviets.

BLACKLEGS OF THE REVOLUTION 405 
And the Lyapkin-Tyapkins* of the spineless Delo 
Naroda hobble after Izvestia and profoundly opine that 
the Congress of Soviets must be torpedoed, for in that 
lies the ìsalvationî of the revolution and of the Constituent 
Assembly! 
Do you hear? ìTemporary organizationîómeaning 
the revolutionary Soviets, which overthrew tsardom and 
its tyranny. ìPermanent and all-embracing organizationî 
ómeaning the servile Pre-parliament, which is serving 
Alexeyev and Kerensky. ìTemporary hutsîómeaning 
the revolutionary Soviets, which dispersed Kornilovís 
detachments. ìPermanent brick buildingîómeaning that 
Kornilov abortion, the Pre-parliament, whose mission 
it is to cover up the mobilization of counter-revolution 
with its prating. Here, the hustle and bustle of virile revolutionary 
activity. There, the decorum and ìcomfortî 
of a counter-revolutionary chancellery. Is it surprising 
that the Izvestia and Delo Naroda renegades hastened 
to move from the ìhutsî of the Smolny Institute to the 
ìbrick buildingî of the Winter Palace, thus reducing 
themselves from the rank of ìleaders of the revolutionî 
to that of orderlies of Sir M. V. Alexeyev? 
The Soviets must be abolished, says Sir M. V. 
Alexeyev. 
Glad to be of service, replies Izvestia. You complete 
the last ìstoreyî in the ìbrick buildingî of the Winter 
Palace, and ìwe,î meanwhile, will tear down the ìhutsî 
of the Smolny Institute. 
The Soviets must be replaced by the Pre-parliament, 
says Mr. Adzhemov. 
* Lyapkin-Tyapkinóa character in Gogolís Inspector-General.ó
Tr.

J. V. S T A L I N 406 
Glad to be of service, comes the reply from Delo 
Naroda. Only first let us torpedo the Congress of Soviets. 
And that is what they are doing now, on the eve of 
another Kornilov revolt, when the counter-revolutionaries 
have already convened their congress in Moscow, and 
when the Kornilovites have already mobilized their 
forces and are organizing riots in the rural districts, causing 
starvation and unemployment in the towns, preparing 
to torpedo the Constituent Assembly, and openly 
mustering forces in the rear and at the front for another 
attack on the revolution. 
What is that, if not downright betrayal of the revolution 
and its conquests? 
What are they, if not despicable blacklegs of the 
revolution and its organizations? 
How, after this, should the workers and soldiers organized 
in the Soviets treat these Izvestia and Delo Naroda 
gentry if they, in the ìgrave momentî of an impending 
Kornilov revolt turn to them ìas of oldî with the ìoutstretched 
hand of the beggar,î pleading for protection 
from counter-revolution? . . . 
Workers, in time of a strike, usually ride blacklegs 
on a wheelbarrow. 
Peasants usually put blacklegs of the common cause 
in the pillory. 
We do not doubt that the Soviets will find proper 
means of stigmatizing the contemptible blacklegs of the 
revolution and its organizations. 
Rabochy Put, No. 37, 
October 15, 1917 
Unsigned

SPEECH AT A MEETING 
OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE 
October 16, 1917 
The day for the uprising must be properly chosen. It 
is only in this sense that the resolution must be understood.
87 We must wait for the government to attack, it is 
said. But let us be clear what attack means. When bread 
prices are raised, when Cossacks are dispatched to the 
Donets area, etc.óthat is already an attack. How long 
should we wait if there is no military attack? Objectively, 
what Kamenev and Zinoviev propose would enable 
the counter-revolution to prepare and organize. We would 
be retreating without end and would lose the revolution. 
Why should we not ensure for ourselves the possibility 
of choosing the day and the conditions for the uprising, 
so as to deprive the counter-revolution of the possibility 
of organizing? 
Comrade Stalin then proceeded to analyze the international 
situation, and argued that there must now be more 
confidence. There are two policies: one is heading towards 
the victory of the revolution and looks to Europe: the 
other has no faith in the revolution and counts on being 
only an opposition. The Petrograd Soviet has already

J. V. S T A L I N 408 
taken the path of insurrection by refusing to sanction 
the withdrawal of the troops. The navy has already 
risen, in so far as it has gone against Kerensky. Hence, 
we must firmly and irrevocably take the path of insurrection. 
A Brief Minute 
Made at the Plenary Meeting 
of the Central Committee

ìSTRONG BULLS OF BASHAN HAVE 
BESET ME ROUNDî 
The Bolsheviks have issued the callóBe ready! It 
is necessitated by the growing tenseness of the situation 
and the mobilization of the forces of counter-revolution, 
which wants to attack the revolution, is trying to decapitate 
it by surrendering the capital to Wilhelm, and 
intends to sap the lifeblood of the capital by withdrawing 
the revolutionary army from it. 
But the revolutionary call issued by our Party has 
not been understood alike by all. 
The workers have understood it ìin their own way,î 
and have begun to arm. They, the workers, are far more 
perspicacious than many of the ìcleverî and ìenlightenedî 
intellectuals. 
The soldiers are not lagging behind the workers. 
Yesterday, at a meeting of the regimental and company 
Committees of the garrison of the capital, they decided 
by a huge majority to defend with their lives the revolution 
and its leader, the Petrograd Soviet, at the first 
call of which they pledged themselves to take to arms. 
That is how matters stand with the workers and 
soldiers. 
Not so with the other sections.

J. V. S T A L I N 410 
The bourgeoisie know whatís what. ìWithout wasting 
words,î they have planted guns outside the Winter Palace, 
because they have their ìensignsî and ìcadets,î 
whom we hope history will not forget. 
The Dyen and Volya Naroda agents of the bourgeoisie 
have launched a campaign against our Party, 
ìconfusingî the Bolsheviks with the Blacks, and insistently 
interrogating them as to the ìdate of the 
uprising.î 
Their understrappers, Kerenskyís flunkeys, the Binasiks 
and Dans, have delivered themselves of a manifesto, 
signed by the ìC.E.C.,î pleading against action, 
demanding, like Dyen and Volya Naroda, to know the 
ìdate of the uprising,î and inviting the workers and 
soldiers to fall on their faces before Kishkin and Konovalov. 
And the terrified neurasthenics of Novaya Zhizn 
are all wrought up, because they ìcannot keep silent 
any longer,î and implore us to tell them at last when 
the Bolsheviks intend to take action. 
Except for the workers and soldiers, verily ìstrong bulls 
of Bashan have beset me round,î slandering and informing, 
threatening and imploring, begging and demanding. 
Here is our reply. 
Concerning the bourgeoisie and their ìapparatusî: 
we have a special account to settle with them. 
Concerning the agents and hirelings of the bourgeoisie: 
we would refer them to the secret serviceóthere 
they may ìinformî themselves and, in turn, ìinformî 
the proper quarters as to the ìdayî and ìhourî of the 
ìaction,î the program of which has already been charted 
by the agents provocateurs of Dyen.

ìSTRONG BULLS OF BASHAN HAVE BESET ME ROUNDî 411 
Concerning the Binasiks, Dans and other orderlies 
of Kerensky in the Central Executive Committee: we 
do not render account to ìheroesî who have taken 
the side of the Kishkin-Kerensky government against 
the workers, soldiers and peasants. But we shall take 
care that these blackleg heroes are made to render account 
to the Congress of Soviets, which yesterday they 
were trying to torpedo, but which today, bending to 
the pressure of the Soviets, they have been forced to 
convene. 
As to the neurasthenics of Novaya Zhizn, we donít 
understand exactly what they want of us. 
If they want to know the ìdayî of the uprising so 
as to take timely measures to mobilize the forces of 
the scared intellectuals for a prompt . . . flight, to 
Finland, say, then we can only . . . praise them, 
for we are in favour of mobilization of forces ìin 
general.î 
If they demand to know the ìdayî of the uprising in 
order to calm their ìsteelî nerves, then we can assure 
them that even if the ìdayî of the uprising were appointed, 
and if the Bolsheviks were to ìwhisper it in their 
ear,î our neurasthenics would not be a bit the ìeasierî 
for it: there would follow new ìquestionings,î hysterics 
and the like. 
But if what they want is simply to stage a demonstration 
against us in the desire to dissociate themselves 
from our Party, then again we can only praise 
them: because, firstly, that wise step would undoubtedly 
be put down to their credit in the proper quarters 
should there be possible ìcomplicationsî and ìfailuresî; 
and, secondly, that would clarify the minds of the

J. V. S T A L I N 412 
workers and soldiers, who would at last realize that 
for the second time (the July days!) Novaya Zhizn was 
deserting the ranks of the revolution for the sinister 
cohorts of the Burtsevs and Suvorins. And we, as 
everyone knows, are in favour of clarity in general. 
But perhaps they cannot ìkeep silentî because a 
general croaking has now been started in the marsh of 
our bewildered intellectuals? Does that not explain 
Gorkyís ìI cannot keep silentî? It is incredible, 
but a fact. They stood aside and kept silent when the 
landlords and their henchmen drove the peasants to 
desperation and hunger ìriots.î They stood aside and 
kept silent when the capitalists and their servitors were 
plotting a countrywide lockout of the workers and unemployment. 
They could keep silent when the counter-revolutionaries 
were attempting to surrender the capital 
and withdraw the army from it. But these individuals, 
it appears, ìcannot keep silentî when the vanguard of 
the revolution, the Petrograd Soviet, has risen in defence 
of the hoodwinked workers and peasants! And the 
first word that comes from their lips is a rebuke levelledó
not against the counter-revolution, oh no!óbut 
against the very revolution about which they gushed 
with enthusiasm at the tea table, but from which, at 
the most crucial moment, they are fleeing as if from the 
plague! Is this not ìstrangeî? 
The Russian revolution has overthrown many a 
reputation. Its might lies, among other things, in the 
fact that it has not cringed before ìcelebrities,î 
but has taken them into its service, or, if they 
refused to learn from it, has consigned them to 
oblivion. There is a whole string of such ìcelebritiesî

ìSTRONG BULLS OF BASHAN HAVE BESET ME ROUNDî 413 
whom the revolution has rejectedóPlekhanov, Kropotkin, 
Breshkovskaya, Zasulich and all those old revolutionaries 
in general who are noteworthy only for 
being old. We fear that Gorky is envious of the laurels 
of these ìpillars.î We fear that Gorky feels a ìmortalî 
urge to follow after themóinto the museum of 
antiquities. 
Well, every man to his own fancy. . . . The revolution 
is not disposed either to pity or to bury its dead. . . . 
Rabochy Put, No. 41, 

October 20, 1917 
Unsigned

WHAT DO WE NEED? 
It was the soldiers and workers who overthrew the 
tsar in February. But having vanquished the tsar, 
they had no desire to take power themselves. Led 
by bad shepherds, the Socialist-Revolutionaries and 
Mensheviks, the workers and soldiers voluntarily turned 
over the power to representatives of the landlords and 
capitalistsóthe Milyukovs and Lvovs, the Guchkovs 
and Konovalovs. 
That was a fatal mistake on the part of the victors. 
And for this mistake the soldiers at the front and 
the workers and peasants in the rear are now paying 
dearly. 
When they overthrew the tsar the workers thought 
they would receive bread and work. But what they 
have ìreceivedî is high prices and starvation, lockouts 
and unemployment. 
Why? 
Because the government consists of appointees of 
the capitalists and profiteers, who want to starve the 
workers into submission. 
When they overthrew the tsar the peasants thought 
they would receive land. But what they have ìreceivedî 
is arrests of their deputies and punitive expeditions.

WHAT DO WE NEED? 415 
Why? 
Because the government consists of representatives of 
the landlords, who will never cede the land to the 
peasants. 
When they overthrew the tsar the soldiers thought 
they would receive peace. But what they have ìreceivedî 
is a protracted war, which it is intended to prolong until 
next autumn. 
Why? 
Because the government consists of representatives of 
the British and French bankers, for whom a ìspeedyî 
cessation of the war is unprofitable, for whom the war is 
a source of ill-gotten wealth. 
When they overthrew the tsar the people thought 
that a Constituent Assembly would be convened within 
two or three months. But the convocation of the Constituent 
Assembly has already been postponed once, and 
it is now obvious that the enemies are preparing to torpedo 
it altogether. 
Why? 
Because the government consists of enemies of the 
people, who would only lose by the prompt convocation 
of a Constituent Assembly. 
After the victory of the February revolution, 
power remained in the hands of the landlords and capitalists, 
the bankers and speculators, the profiteers 
and marauders. Therein lay the fatal mistake of the workers 
and soldiers; that is the cause of the present disasters 
in the rear and at the front. 
This mistake must be rectified at once. The time 
has come when further procrastination is fraught with 
disaster for the whole cause of the revolution.

J. V. S T A L I N 416 
The present government of landlords and capitalists 
must be replaced by a new government, a government 
of workers and peasants. 
The present impostor government, which was not 
elected by the people and which is not accountable to 
the people, must be replaced by a government recognized 
by the people, elected by the representatives of the 
workers, soldiers and peasants, and accountable to 
these representatives. 
The Kishkin-Konovalov government must be replaced 
by a government of the Soviets of Workersí, Soldiersí 
and Peasantsí Deputies. 
That which was not done in February must be 
done now. 
Thus, and thus alone, can peace, bread, land and 
liberty be won. 
Workers, soldiers, peasants, Cossacks and all working 
people! 
Do you want the present government of landlords 
and capitalists to be replaced by a new government, 
a government of workers and peasants? 
Do you want the new government of Russia to 
proclaim, in conformity with the demands of the peasants, 
the abolition of landlordism and to transfer 
all the landed estates to the Peasant Committees without 
compensation? 
Do you want the new government of Russia to publish 
the tsarís secret treaties, to declare them invalid, 
and to propose a just peace to a l l the belligerent 
nations? 
Do you want the new government of Russia to put 
a thorough curb on the organizers of lockouts and the

WHAT DO WE NEED? 417 
profiteers who are deliberately fomenting famine and 
unemployment, economic disruption and high prices? 
If you want this, muster all your forces, rise as one 
man, organize meetings and elect your delegations and, 
through them, lay your demands before the Congress of 
Soviets which opens tomorrow in the Smolny. 
If you all act solidly and staunchly no one will dare 
to resist the will of the people. The stronger and the more 
organized and powerful your action, the more peacefully 
will the old government make way for the new. 
And then the whole country will boldly and firmly march 
forward to the conquest of peace for the peoples, land 
for the peasants, and bread and work for the starving. 
The power must pass into the hands of the Soviets 
of Workersí, Soldiersí and Peasantsí Deputies. 
A new government must come into power, a government 
elected by the Soviets, recallable by the Soviets 
and accountable to the Soviets. 
Only such a government can ensure the timely convocation 
of the Constituent Assembly. 
Rabochy Put, No. 44, 
October 24, 1917 
Editorial

N O T E S 
1 The International Conference of Internationalists was held 
in Zimmerwald on September 5-8, 1915. It issued a manifesto 
characterizing the world war as an imperialist war, condemning 
ìSocialistsî who voted war credits and joined bourgeois 
governments, and calling upon the workers of Europe to 
campaign against the war and for a peace without annexations 
or indemnities. The Internationalists held a second 
conference on April 24-30, 1916, in Kienthal. Its manifesto 
and resolutions represented a further advance in the international 
revolutionary movement against the war. But, like 
the Zimmerwald Conference, it did not endorse the Bolshevik 
slogans: conversion of the imperialist war into a civil war, 
defeat of oneís own imperialist government, organization 
of a Third International. p. 6 
2 The Yedinstvo group was an organization of extreme Rightwing 
Menshevik defencists, formed in March 1917. Its leading 
figures were Plekhanov and the former Liquidators, Buryanov 
and Jordansky. It unreservedly supported the Provisional 
Government, demanded the continuation of the 
imperialist war, and joined with the Black Hundreds in 
attacking the Bolsheviks. At the time of the Great October 
Socialist Revolution members of the group took part in the 
counter-revolutionary Committee for the Salvation of the 
Fatherland and the Revolution. p. 10 
3 Rech (Speech)óa newspaper, central organ of the Cadet (Constitutional 
Democratic) Party, published in St. Petersburg 
from February 1906 to October 26, 1917. p. 20

NOTES 419 
4 Dyen (Day)óa newspaper founded in St. Petersburg in 1912, 
financed by the banks and run by the Menshevik Liquidators. 
It was suppressed for counter-revolutionary activities on October 
26, 1917. p. 20 
5 In connection with the interview given by Milyukov to the 
press, Pravda (No. 17, March 25, 1917) carried an editorial 
entitled ìDown Wi t h Imperialist Policy!î analyzing the 
foreign policy of the Provisional Government. 
After the February Revolution (on March 5, 1917) Pravda 
became the Central Organ of the Bolshevik Party. On March 
15, 1917, at an enlarged meeting of the Bureau of the C.C., 
R.S.D.L.P.(B.), J. V. Stalin was appointed a member of its 
editorial board. On his return to Russia in April 1917, 
V. I. Lenin took over the direction of Pravda. V. M. Molotov, 
Y. M. Sverdlov, M. S. Olminsky and K. N. Samoilova were 
among the paperís regular contributors. On July 5, 1917, 
the Pravda editorial offices were wrecked by military cadets and 
Cossacks. When V. I. Lenin went into hiding after the July days, 
J. V. Stalin became the editor-in-chief of the Central Organ. 
On July 23, 1917, the Army Organization of the C.C., 
R.S.D.L.P.(B.) managed to found a paper called Rabochy i Soldat 
(Worker and Soldier), and the Central Committee of the Party 
gave instructions that, pending the restarting of the Central 
Organ, Rabochy i Soldat should perform i t s functions. 
In the period July-October the Central Organ contributed 
immensely to rallying the workers and soldiers around the 
Bolshevik Party and in preparing the ground for an armed 
uprising. On August 13, 1917, the Bolshevik Central Organ 
began to appear under the name of Proletary (Proletarian), 
and, when that paper was banned, it reappeared as Rabochy 
(Worker) , and then, until October 26, 1917, as Rabochy 
Put (Workersí Path). On October 27, 1917, the Bolshevik 
Central Organ resumed its old nameóPravda. p. 22 
6 Vecherneye Vremya (Evening Times)óan evening paper of reactionary 
trend, founded by A. S. Suvorin, and published in 
St. Petersburg from 1911 to 1917. p. 23

NOTES 420 
7 Delo Naroda (Peopleís Cause)óa Socialist-Revolutionary 
paper, published in Petrograd from March 15, 1917, to January 
1918. p. 25 
8 Sonderbundóa reactionary alliance of the seven Catholic 
cantons of Switzerland which was formed in 1845 and which 
insisted on the perpetuation of the political disunity of the 
country. In 1847 war broke out between the Sonderbund and 
the other cantons, which favoured a centralized government 
for Switzerland. The war ended with the defeat of the Sonderbund 
and the conversion of Switzerland from a union of 
states into an integral federal state. p. 27 
9 The Seventh (April) All-Russian Conference of the 
R.S.D.L.P.(B.) was held in Petrograd on April 24-29, 1917. It 
was the first conference of the Bolsheviks to be held openly and 
legally, and i t ranked as a Party congress. In a report on 
the current situation, V. I. Lenin developed the principles he 
had formulated earlier in his April Theses. J. V. Stalin made a 
speech at the conference in defence of V. I. Leninís resolution on 
the current situation and delivered a report on the national question. 
The conference condemned the opportunist, capitulatory 
position of Kamenev, Rykov, Zinoviev, Bukharin and Pyatakov, 
who opposed a socialist revolution in Russia and took a national-
chauvinist stand on the national question. The April 
Conference oriented the Bolshevik Party towards a struggle 
to transform the bourgeois democratic revolution into a socialist 
revolution. For the resolution of the April Conference on 
the national question, see ìResolutions and Decisions of 
C.P.S.U.(B.) Congresses, Conferences and Central Committee 
Plenums,î Part 1, 6th ed., 1940, p. 233. p. 31 
10 The Eighth Congress of the Russian Communist Party (Bolsheviks) 
was held in Moscow, March 18-23, 1919. It vehemently 
denounced the chauvinist dominant-nation views of Bukharin 
and Pyatakov on the national question. For the Program 
the R.C.P.(B.) adopted by the Eighth Congress, see ìResolutions 
and Decisions of C.P.S.U.(B.) Congresses, Conferences

NOTES 421 
and Central Committee Plenums,î Part I , 6th ed., 1940, 
pp. 281-95. p. 32 
11 See Second Congress of the Comintern, July-August, 1920, 
Moscow, 1934, p. 492. p. 32 
12 The text of Shingaryovís telegram was reproduced by 
V. I. Lenin in his article, ìA ëVoluntary Agreementí Between 
Landlords and Peasants?î in Pravda, No. 33, April 15, 1917 
(see V. I. Lenin, Works, 4th Russ. ed., Vol. 24, p. 108). p. 36 
13 The All-Russian Conference of Soviets of Workersí and Soldiersí 
Deputies was convened by the Executive Committee 
of the Petrograd Soviet and met in Petrograd from March 29 
to April 3, 1917. It was dominated by the Mensheviks and 
Socialist-Revolutionaries. p. 43 
14 The Note of Milyukov, Minister of Foreign Affairs in the Provisional 
Government and leader of the Cadets, was sent to 
the Allied powers on April 18, 1917. It gave assurances of 
the fidelity of the Provisional Government to the treaties 
concluded by the tsarist regime and affirmed its readiness to 
continue the imperialist war. The Note evoked profound indignation 
among the workers and soldiers of Petrograd. p. 46 
15 The Kshesinska mansion (Kshesinska had been a favourite 
of the tsar) was seized by the revolutionary soldiers at the 
time of the February Revolution and served as the premises 
of the Central and Petrograd Bolshevik Committees, the Army 
Organization of the C.C., R.S.D.L.P.(B.), a soldiersí club 
and other workersí and soldiersí organizations. p. 48 
16 On April 22, 1917, after the conference in the Mariinsky 
Palace, the Provisional Government published an ìexplanationî 
of Milyukovís Note, asserting that by ìa decisive victory 
over the enemyî was meant ìestablishment of enduring peace 
on the basis of the self-determination of nations.î The compromising 
Executive Committee of the Petrograd Soviet of

NOTES 422
Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies accepted the governmentís 
corrections and ìexplanationsî as satisfactory and considered 
ìthe incident closed.î p. 49 
17 Bundóthe General Jewish Workersí Union of Poland, Lithuania 
and Russia, founded in October 1897 (see J. V. Stalin, 
Works, Vol. 1, p. 394, Note 7). p. 56 
18 The Revolutionary Peopleís Committee, elected at a congress 
of representatives of volosts and hamlets of the Schl¸sselburg 
Uyezd, adopted measures for the solution of the land 
question. The Committeeís Land Commission resolved: 1) that 
the village communities should plough up unused land belonging 
to churches, monasteries, the royal family and private 
proprietors, and 2) that the required farm implements and 
livestock should be taken over from private estates, warehouses, 
etc., at a minimum valuation. In pursuance of this decision, 
the volost committees took all the land in the uyezd under their 
control, made an inventory of implements and livestock, 
arranged for the guarding of woods and forests, and organized 
the ploughing up of unused land. p. 61 
19 The supplement to Soldatskaya Pravda, No. 13, May 3, 1917, 
contained the resolutions of the Seventh (April) All-Russian 
Conference of the R.S.D.L.P.(B.). p. 69 
20 Preparations for the elections to the Petrograd district Dumas 
began in April 1917. Pravda and the Petrograd and district 
committees of the Bolshevik Party called upon the workers 
and soldiers to take an active part in the elections and to vote 
for the Bolshevik candidates. At a meeting of the Petrograd 
Committee of the R.S.D.L.P.(B.) on May 10, 1917, which 
was attended by J. V. Stalin, reports were made by city and 
district commissions on the progress of the election campaign. 
Polling continued from May 27 to June 5, 1917. The outcome 
of the polling was discussed by J. V. Stalin in the article ìResults 
of the Petrograd Municipal Electionsî (see p. 95 in 
this volume). p. 70

NOTES 423 
21 The Trudoviks were a group of petty-bourgeois democrats 
formed in April 1906 of peasant members of the First State 
Duma. In 1917 the Trudoviks merged with the Popular Socialist 
Party. p. 75 
22 The Popular Socialists were a petty-bourgeois organization 
which split off from the Right wing of the Socialist-Revolutionary 
Party in 1906. Their political demands did not go 
beyond a constitutional monarchy. Lenin called them ìSocial-
Cadetsî and ìSocialist-Revolutionary Mensheviks.î After 
the February Revolution of 1917 the Popular Socialists were 
among the petty-bourgeois ìsocialistî parties that took up 
an extreme Right stand. After the October Revolution the 
Popular Socialists joined counter-revolutionary organizations. 
p. 75 
23 Rabochaya Gazeta (Workersí Newspaper)ócentral organ of the 
Menshevik Party, founded in Petrograd on March 7, 1917. It 
was suppressed shortly after the October Revolution. p. 76 
24 The Inter-Regional (Mezhrayonnaya) Organization of United 
Social-Democrats, or Mezhrayontsi, was formed in St. Petersburg 
in 1913 and consisted of Trotskyite Mensheviks and 
a number of former Bolsheviks who had split away from the 
Party. During the First World War the Mezhrayontsi occupied 
a Centrist position and opposed the Bolsheviks. In 1917 
they announced their agreement with the line of the Bolshevik 
Party, and the Bolsheviks accordingly formed a bloc with 
them in the elections to the Petrograd district Dumas in May 
1917. The Mezhrayontsi were admitted to the R.S.D.L.P.(B.) 
at its Sixth Congress. A number of them, headed by Trotsky, 
subsequently proved to be enemies of the people. 
p. 78 
25 Novaya Zhizn (New Life)óa Menshevik paper founded in Petrograd 
in April 1917. It was the rallying centre of Martovite Mensheviks 
and individual intellectuals of a semi-Menshevik trend. 
The Novaya Zhizn group continually vacillated between the

NOTES 424 
compromisers and the Bolsheviks, and after the July days 
members of the group held a unity congress with the Menshevik 
defencists. After the October Revolution the group, with 
the exception of a few of its members who joined the Bolsheviks, 
adopted a hostile attitude towards the Soviet Government. 
Novaya Zhizn was suppressed in the summer of 1918. 
p. 79 
26 The First All-Russian Peasant Congress met in Petrograd 
from May 4 to 28, 1917. The majority of the delegates belonged 
to the Socialist-Revolutionary Party or kindred groups. 
The overwhelming number of the delegates from the gubernias 
represented the rich peasants, the kulaks. p. 85 
27 Declaration of Rights of the Soldieróan order of the day 
issued to the army and navy by Kerensky, War Minister in 
the Provisional Government, on May 11, 1917, defining the 
basic rights of servicemen. It substantially curtailed the 
rights won by the soldiers in the early days of the February 
revolution. The Socialist-Revolutionary and Menshevik Executive 
Committee of the Petrograd Soviet welcomed the declaration, 
but the soldiers and sailors held meetings of protest 
and called it a ìdeclaration of no rights.î p. 85 
28 Vechernaya Birzhovkaócontemptuous nickname given to 
the evening edition of the Birzheviye Vedomosti (Stock Exchange 
News), a bourgeois paper founded in St. Petersburg in 1880. 
The nickname ìBirzhovkaî became a synonym of the unprincipled 
and corrupt press. The paper was suppressed in October 
1917 by the Revolutionary Military Committee of the Petrograd 
Soviet. p. 86 
29 Robert Grimm, secretary of the Swiss Socialist Party, had 
come to Russia in May 1917. Early in June a report appeared 
in the bourgeois papers alleging that Grimm had been assigned 
the mission of probing the possibility of a separate peace 
between Germany and Russia. The Provisional Government 
made this a pretext for expelling him from Russia. p. 89

NOTES 425 
30 The First All-Russian Congress of Soviets of Workersí and 
Soldiersí Deputies, sponsored and arranged by the Petrograd 
Soviet, was held on June 3-24, 1917. The majority of the 
delegates were Socialist-Revolutionaries (285) and Mensheviks 
(248). The Bolsheviks, who at that time were in the 
minority in the Soviets, were represented by 105 delegates. 
At the congress, the Bolsheviks exposed the imperialist character 
of the war and the disastrousness of compromise with the 
bourgeoisie. V. I. Lenin spoke on the attitude towards the 
Provisional Government and, in another speech, on the 
war. In opposition to the compromising stand of the Mensheviks 
and Socialist-Revolutionaries, he demanded the transfer 
of all power to the Soviets. The Mensheviks and Socialist- 
Revolutionaries were the dominating influence a t the 
congress. p. 93 
31 Volya Naroda (Peopleís Will)óa newspaper, organ of the 
Right-wing Socialist-Revolutionaries, published in Petrograd 
from April 29 to November 24, 1917. p. 98 
32 ìTo All the Toilers, to All the Workers and Soldiers of Petrogradî 
was written in connection with the demonstration of workers 
and soldiers called by the Central Committee and Petrograd 
Committee of the R.S.D.L.P.(B.) for June 10, 1917. It was 
first published on June 9 as a proclamation which was distributed 
in the districts of Petrograd. I t was to have appeared 
in Pravda and Soldatskaya Pravda on June 10, 
but since the Bolshevik Central Committee and Petrograd 
Committee had been obliged on the night before to call off 
the demonstration, the appeal was cut out of the stereotypes. 
Only a few copies of Soldatskaya Pravda appeared with 
the text of the appeal. On June 13 it was published in Pravda, 
No. 80, following an article entitled ìThe Truth About the 
Demonstration,î and again in Pravda of June 17 and 18, in 
connection with the new demonstration appointed for the 
latter day. p. 101

NOTES 426 
33 Okopnaya Pravda (Trench Truth)óa Bolshevik paper published 
in Riga, the first issue appearing on April 30, 1917. 
The paper was initially published by the Soldiersí Committee 
of the Novo-Ladoga Regiment with funds contributed by the 
soldiers themselves, but beginning with its seventh issue 
(May 17, 1917) it became the organ of the Army Organization and 
Russian Section of the Riga Committee of the R.S.D.L.P.(B.). 
Later (beginning with its 26th issue, July 5) it became the 
organ of the Twelfth Army Organization of the Riga Committee, 
and then of the Central Committee of the Latvian Social- 
Democratic Party. Okopnaya Pravda was suppressed on 
July 21, 1917, but two days later, July 23, another paper appeared 
in its place, Okopny Nabat (Trench Alarm), organ of 
the Joint Army Organization of the Latvian Social-Democratic 
Party, and continued publication until Riga was captured by 
the Germans. Okopny Nabat resumed publication in Venden on 
October 12, and on October 29 it resumed its former nameó 
Okopnaya Pravda. From then on it appeared regularly until 
February 1918. p. 106 
34 Soldatskaya Pravda (Soldiersí Truth)óa Bolshevik newspaper 
which began publication on April 15, 1917, as the organ of the 
Army Organization of the Petrograd Committee, R.S.D.L.P.(B.), 
and from May 19 as the organ of the Army Organization 
of the Central Committee, R.S.D.L.P.(B.). The newspaper 
was extremely popular among the Petrograd soldiers and 
workers. Workers voluntarily contributed funds for its maintenance 
and free distribution among the soldiers at the 
front. Its circulation rose to 50,000 copies, half of which 
went to the front. During the July days the editorial offices 
of Soldatskaya Pravda were wrecked, together with those 
of Pravda, and the paper was suppressed by the Provision 
al Government. It resumed publication a few days after the 
October Revolution and continued till March 1918. p. 111 
35 The Trud printing plant, where the Bolshevik newspapers 
and books were printed, had been acquired by the Central 
Committee, R.S.D.L.P.(B.) on April 22, 1917, with funds

FROM MARX 
TO MAO 
 
NOT FOR 
COMMERCIAL 
DISTRIBUTION 
NOTES 427 
contributed, in response to Pravdaís appeal, by the workers 
and soldiers themselves. On July 6, 1917, the plant was 
wrecked by military cadet and Cossack detachments. p. 111 
36 The Second (Emergency) Petrograd City Conference of the Bolshevik 
Party convened on July 1, 1917, and was attended by 
145 delegates, representing 32,220 Party members. The emergency 
conference was necessitated by the acute political situation 
that had arisen in Petrograd and the country generally 
in connection with the offensive launched at the front, the 
attempts of the Provisional Government to withdraw the 
revolutionary regiments from Petrograd and ìunburdenî the 
city of revolutionary workers, etc. The conference adjourned 
owing to the events of July 3-5 and resumed its sittings only 
on July 16, its deliberations from then on being directed by 
J. V. Stalin. p. 114 
37 The Extraordinary Conference in Moscow, or the Moscow 
Conference of State, was convened by the Provisional Government 
on August 12, 1917. The majority of the participants 
were landlords, bourgeois, generals, officers and Cossack 
commanders. The delegates from the Soviets and the 
Central Executive Committee were Mensheviks and Socialist- 
Revolutionaries. At the conference, Kornilov, Alexeyev, Kaledin 
and others outlined a program for the suppression of the revolution. 
Kerensky, in his speech, threatened to crush the revolutionary 
movement and to put a stop to the attempts of the 
peasants to seize the landed estates. In an appeal written by 
J. V. Stalin, the Central Committee of the Bolshevik Party 
called upon the proletariat to protest against the Moscow Conference. 
On the day of its opening the Bolsheviks organized 
a one-day strike in Moscow, in which over 400,000 workers 
took part. Protest meetings and strikes took place in a number 
of other cities. The counter-revolutionary character of the 
Moscow Conference was exposed by J. V. Stalin in a number 
of articles (see present volume, pp. 207, 215, 226, 231, etc.). 
p. 119

NOTES 428 
38 The delegates from the Baltic Fleet had come to Petrograd 
from Helsingfors on July 5, 1917, in connection with the 
attempt of the Provisional Government to use Baltic warships 
against the revolutionary sailors of Kronstadt who had 
taken an active part in the demonstration of July 3-4 in 
Petrograd. On July 7, the 67 delegates from the Baltic Fleet 
were arrested by order of the Provisional Government. p. 119 
39 The Sestroretsk workers were disarmed on July 11, 1917, by 
order of the Provisional Government and with the consent of 
the Socialist-Revolutionary and Menshevik Central Executive 
Committee. The workers were presented with an ultimatum 
to surrender their weapons under threat of armed force. 
The Bolshevik members of the factory committee of the Sestroretsk 
small arms factory were arrested. p. 119 
40 The Provisional Governmentís declaration of July 8, 1917, contained 
a number of demagogic promises, with which the Provisional 
Government and the Socialist-Revolutionaries and Mensheviks 
hoped to appease the masses after the events of July 3-5. 
The government called for the continuation of the imperialist 
war, but at the same time promised to hold the elections to 
the Constituent Assembly on the appointed date, September 17, 
and to frame laws introducing an 8-hour working day, social 
insurance, etc. Although the declaration of July 8 was 
nothing but a formal gesture, it was attacked by the Cadets, 
who made its withdrawal a condition of their entering the 
government. p. 125 
41 Kamkovitesófollowers of B. Kamkov (Kats), a leader of the 
Left wing of the Socialist-Revolutionary Party which took 
shape soon after the February Revolution of 1917. p. 129 
42 The article ìVictory of the Counter-revolutionî had been 
originally printed in the Kronstadt Proletarskoye Delo (Proletarian 
Cause), No. 5, July 19, 1917, under the title ìTriumph 
of the Counter-revolution.î p. 138

NOTES 429 
43 The words of Mulei Hassan, the Moor of Tunis in Schillerís 
tragedy ìDie Verschwrung des Fiesko zu Genua.î p. 142 
44 Arthur Hendersonóone of the leaders of the British Labour 
Party; a social-chauvinist and member of Lloyd Georgeís 
government during the First World War. 
Albert Thomasóone of the leaders of the French Socialist 
Party; in the First World War he was a social-chauvinist and 
a member of the French government. p. 142 
45 The appeal, ìTo All the Toilers, to All the Workers and Soldiers 
of Petrograd,î was written in connection with the events 
of July 3-5 at the request of the Second Petrograd City Conference 
of the Bolshevik Party. It was printed in Rabochy i 
Soldat, No. 2, July 25 (the date was erroneously given on the 
first page of the paper as July 24). It was reprinted in the No. 8 
issue on August 1 at the request of the workers and soldiers. 
p. 145 
46 The ìhistoric conference,î as it was called by the Socialist- 
Revolutionaries and Mensheviks, was convened by the Provisional 
Government on July 21 in connection with the government 
crisis resulting from the withdrawal of the Cadet Ministers 
from the government and Kerenskyís announcement 
of his resignation. At the conference, which consisted of representatives 
of the bourgeois and compromising parties, the 
Cadets demanded the formation of a government which would 
be independent of the Soviets and the democratic parties, 
capable of restoring ìdisciplineî in the army with the help 
of repressive measures, etc. The Socialist-Revolutionaries and 
Mensheviks acquiesced in these demands and empowered 
Kerensky to form a new Provisional Government. p. 148 
47 The two conferences were the Emergency Petrograd City 
Conference of the Bolsheviks, held July 1-3 and 16-20, 1917 
(see Note 36), and the Second City Conference of the Mensheviks, 
held July 15-16. p. 153

NOTES 430 
48 The elections to the Constituent Assembly had been fixed 
by the Provisional Government for September 17, 1917, 
and the article ìThe Constituent Assembly Electionsî was 
written in connection with the opening of the election campaign. 
The first part of the article appeared in Pravda, No. 99, 
July 5, but was not continued because the paper was suppressed 
after the July days. The article was printed in full 
only on July 27, in Rabochy i Soldat, No. 4. p. 158 
49 The All-Russian Peasantsí Union was a petty-bourgeois organization 
which arose in 1905 and demanded political liberty, 
a Constituent Assembly and the abolition of private ownership 
of land. It disintegrated in 1906, but resumed its activities 
in 1917, and on July 31 convened an All-Russian Congress 
in Moscow. The congress declared its unqualified support of 
the Provisional Government, favoured continuation of the 
imperialist war, and opposed the seizure of the landed estates 
by the peasants. In the autumn of 1917 several members of 
the Central Committee of the Peasantsí Union took part in 
repressing peasant uprisings. p. 158 
50 The Soviet of Peasantsí Deputies of the Petrograd Garrison, 
which later changed its name to the Petrograd Soviet of Peasantsí 
Deputies, was constituted on April 14, 1917, from 
representatives of the military units and some of the industrial 
plants of Petrograd. Its chief object was to secure the transfer 
of the tenure of all land to the peasants without compensation. 
I t opposed the compromising policy of the All-Russian 
Soviet of Peasantsí Deputies, which was controlled by Rightwing 
Socialist-Revolutionaries. After the October Socialist 
Revolution the Petrograd Soviet of Peasantsí Deputies took 
an active part in the establishment of Soviet rule in the countryside 
and in the implementation of the Decree on the Land. 
The Soviet terminated its existence in February 1918 with 
the demobilization of the old army. p. 161 
51 The Sixth Congress of the R.S.D.L.P. (Bolsheviks) was held 
in Petrograd from July 26 to August 3, 1917. It heard and

NOTES 431 
discussed the Central Committeeís reports on policy and organization, 
reports from the districts, on the war and the international 
situation, on the political and economic situation, 
on the trade union movement, and on the Constituent Assembly 
election campaign. The congress adopted new Party Rules 
and resolved to form a Youth League. The report of the Central 
Committee and the report on the political situation were made 
by J. V. Stalin. The congress rejected the Trotskyite resolutions 
of Bukharin and Preobrazhensky, which were designed 
to divert the Party from the course of socialist revolution, and 
approved the resolution on the political situation submitted 
by J. V. Stalin. The congress headed the Party for armed 
uprising, for the socialist revolution. p. 166 
52 Friedrich Adleróa leader of the Austrian Social-Democratic 
Party. In 1916, in token of protest against the war, he assassinated 
the Austrian Prime Minister, St¸rgkh, for which 
he was sentenced to death in May 1917, but was released in 
1918. On emerging from prison he took up a hostile attitude 
towards the October Revolution in Russia. p. 167 
53 On July 4, 1917, the following leaflet was distributed 
in the working class quarters of Petrograd: 
ìComrade Workers and Soldiers of Petrograd, now that 
the counter-revolutionary bourgeoisie has clearly come out in 
opposition to the revolution, let the All-Russian Soviet of 
Workersí, Soldiersí and Peasantsí Deputies take the entire 
power into its own hands. 
ìThis is the will of the revolutionary population of Petrograd, 
and it has the right to make its will known through 
a peaceful and organized demonstration to the Executive Committees 
of the All-Russian Soviets of Workersí, Soldiersí 
and Peasantsí Deputies now in session. 
ìLong live the will of the revolutionary workers and revolutionary 
soldiers! 
ìLong live the power of the Soviets! 
ìThe coalition government is bankrupt: i t has fallen to 
pieces without having been able to perform the tasks for

NOTES 432 
which it was formed. Gigantic and most difficult problems 
confront the revolution. A new power i s needed which 
will, in conjunction with the revolutionary proletariat, 
the revolutionary army and the revolutionary peasantry, 
resolutely set about consolidating and extending the peoplesí 
conquests. This power can only be that of the Soviets 
of Workersí, Soldiersí and Peasantsí Deputies. 
ìYesterday, the revolutionary garrison of Petrograd and 
the workers came out to proclaim: ëAll power to the Soviet!í 
We urge that this movement that has broken out in the regiments 
and the factories should be turned into a peaceful and 
organized expression of the will of all the workers, soldiers and 
peasants of Petrograd. 
Central Committee, R.S.D.L.P. 
Petrograd Committee, R.S.D.L.P. 
Mezhrayonny Committee, R.S.D.L.P. 
Army Organization of the C.C., R.S.D.L.P. 
Commission of the Workersí Section, Soviet 
of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies p. 174 
54 Listok Pravdy (Pravda Bulletin) appeared on July 6, 1917, 
in place of Pravda, whose editorial offices had been wrecked by 
military cadets. It carried an appeal of the Central and Petrograd 
Committees and the Army Organization of the R.S.D.L.P.(B.), 
under the title: ìCalm and Restraint.î p. 176 
55 Zhivoye Slovo (Living Word)óa yellow ultra-reactionary newspaper 
published in Petrograd. In 1917 it called for violent action 
against the Bolsheviks. It ceased publication with the 
October Revolution. p. 177 
56 The leaflet ìTry the Slanderers!î was issued by the Central 
Committee, R.S.D.L.P.(B.) after July 5, 1917, and was printed 
on July 9 in Volna (Wave), a newspaper published by the Helsingfors 
Committee of the R.S.D.L.P.(B.). The leaflet said: ìThe 
counter-revolutionaries want to decapitate the revolution by a 
very simple means, by confusing the minds of the masses and

NOTES 433 
inciting them against their most popular leaders, the tried 
and tested champions of the revolution. . . . We demand that 
the Provisional Government and the Central Executive Committee 
of the Soviets of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies institute 
an immediate public inquiry into all the circumstances 
of the vile plot of the reactionaries and hired slanderers 
against the honour and lives of the leaders of the working 
class. . . . The slanderers and slandermongers must be brought 
to trial. The pogromists and liars must be pilloried!î p. 178 
57 Bezrabotnyópseudonym of D. Z. Manuilsky. p. 181 
58 On July 27, 1917, troop trains of the Ukrainian Bogdan Khmelnitsky 
Regiment which were proceeding to the front were 
fired upon by Cossacks and cuirassiers at stations near Kiev 
and in Kiev itself. p. 187 
59 Order No. 1 had been issued on March 1, 1917, by the Petrograd 
Soviet on the demand of representatives of the revolutionary 
military units, who reported that the soldiers were growing 
increasingly distrustful of the Provisional Committee of the 
State Duma and its Military Commission. 
The Order directed the military units (companies, 
battalions, etc.) to elect Soldiersí Committees and to appoint 
representatives to the Soviets of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies, 
commanded that the weapons of the military units 
be placed at the disposal of the Soldiersí Committees, sanctioned 
the carrying out of the orders of the Military Commission 
only when they did not run counter to the orders and decisions 
of the Soviets of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies, etc. 
p. 192 
60 J. V. Stalin is referring to Leninís pamphlet, On Slogans, 
written in July 1917 (see V. I. Lenin, Works, 4th Russ. ed., 
Vol. 25, p. 164). p. 196 
61 The article ìAgainst the Moscow Conferenceî was written 
by J. V. Stalin at the request of the Central Committee of the

NOTES 434 
R.S.D.L.P.(B.) which had discussed the question of the 
Moscow Conference on August 5, 1917. The C.C. resolved to 
publish its resolution and a leaflet and to print a series of 
articles on the Moscow Conference in the Central Organ. 
ìAgainst the Moscow Conferenceî first appeared as an editorial 
in Rabochy i Soldat, No. 14, and then in the Kronstadt Proletarskoye 
Delo on August 12, 1917, and, on August 13, as 
an appeal of the Party Central Committee in Proletary, No. 1. 
It was also put out as a separate leaflet. 
In the appeal and the leaflet the last few lines were replaced 
by the following words: 
ìComrades, arrange meetings and pass resolutions of protest 
against the ëMoscow Conferenceí! As a mark of protest against 
the ëConference,í join with the Putilov workers today in organizing 
collections in support of the hounded and persecuted 
Party press. Do not succumb to provocation and do not arrange 
any street demonstrations today!î p. 207 
62 The idea of convening a conference in Stockholm to discuss 
the question of peace had been mooted in April 1917. Borgbjerg, 
a Danish Social-Democrat, had come to Petrograd on 
behalf of the Joint Committee of the labour parties of Denmark, 
Norway and Sweden to invite the Russian socialist 
parties to take part in the conference. The Socialist-Revolutionary 
and Menshevik Executive Committee and the Petrograd 
Soviet of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies resolved to 
participate in the conference and to take the initiative in 
convening it. The Seventh (April) All-Russian Conference 
of the Bolshevik Party exposed the imperialist character of 
the projected Stockholm Conference and resolutely declared 
against participating in it. When the question of the conference 
was discussed at a meeting of the Central Executive 
Committee on August 6, Kamenev spoke urging participation. 
The Bolshevik members of the Central Executive Committee 
dissociated themselves from Kamenevís statement. The 
Central Committee of the Bolshevik Party condemned his 
attitude and resolved that the views of the Party on the question 
should be expounded in the Central Organ. On August 9,

NOTES 435 
Rabochy i Soldat printed Stalinís article ìMore on the Subject 
of Stockholm,î and on August 16 Proletary published a 
letter from V. I. Lenin entitled ìKamenevís Speech in the 
Central Executive Committee on the Stockholm Conference.î 
p. 211 
63 The Executive Committee of the Petrograd Soviet of Workersí 
and Soldiersí Deputies had decided in April 1917 to send a 
delegation to neutral and allied countries to make arrangements 
for the Stockholm Conference, The decision was confirmed 
by the First All-Russian Congress of Soviets of Workersí 
and Soldiersí Deputies. The delegation visited England, 
France, Italy and Sweden and negotiated with representatives 
of various socialist parties. The Stockholm Conference never 
took place. p. 211 
64 Long Parliamentóthe parliament at the time of the bourgeois 
revolution in England in the seventeenth century which 
sat for thirteen years (1640-53). p. 216 
65 The Preliminary Conference or ìPrivate Conference of Public 
Menî as it was otherwise called, met in Moscow from August 8 
to 10, 1917. Its object was to unite the bourgeoisie, landlords 
and military and to draft a joint program for the forthcoming 
Conference of State. At the conference a counter-revolutionary 
Union of Public Men was set up. p. 218 
66 The Finnish Diet, convoked towards the close of March 1917, 
demanded autonomy for Finland. On July 5, 1917, after long and 
fruitless negotiations with the Provisional Government, the 
Diet passed a Supreme Powers Law, extending the authority 
of the Diet to all Finnish affairs except foreign policy, military 
legislation and military administration, which were to 
be under the jurisdiction of the all-Russian authorities. On 
July 18, 1917, the Provisional Government dissolved the Diet on 
the grounds that in passing this law before the Constituent 
Assembly had expressed its will, it had usurped the latterís 
authority. p. 222

NOTES 436 
67 The Ukrainian Central Rada had been formed in April 1917 
by Ukrainian bourgeois and petty-bourgeois parties and groups. 
On the eve of the July days a General Secretariat of the Rada 
was instituted as the supreme administrative authority in the 
Ukraine. After the dispersal of the July demonstration in 
Petrograd, the Provisional Government, in pursuance of its 
policy of national oppression, severed the Donets Basin and 
the Yekaterinoslav and several other Ukrainian regions from 
the Ukraine. Supreme authority in the Ukraine was vested 
in a Commissar appointed by the Provisional Government. 
Notwithstanding this, the Rada leaders, out of fear of the 
approaching proletarian revolution, soon came to terms with 
the Provisional Government, and the Rada became a strong 
hold of bourgeois nationalist counter-revolution in the Ukraine. 
p. 222 
68 Izvestia (Gazette) of the Petrograd Soviet of Workersí and Soldiersí 
Deputies was a newspaper which began publication on 
February 28, 1917. It became the organ of the Central Executive 
Committee of the Soviets of Workersí and Soldiersí 
Deputies when the latter was constituted at the First All- 
Russian Congress of Soviets, and, beginning with its 132nd 
issue (August 1, 1917), appeared under the name of Izvestia 
of the Central Executive Committee and Petrograd Soviet of 
Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies. The paper was controlled by 
the Mensheviks and Socialist-Revolutionaries and conducted 
a bitter fight against the Bolshevik Party, but on October 27, 
1917, after the Second All-Russian Congress of Soviets, it 
became the official organ of the Soviet Government. In March 
1918 its editorial offices were transferred from Petrograd to 
Moscow when the All-Russian Central Executive Committee 
and the Council of Peopleís Commissars removed to the latter 
city. p. 228 
69 On August 19, 1917, the German army began operations for 
piercing the Russian front at Riga. The Russian troops put 
up vigorous resistance, but the supreme command, represented 
by Kornilov, ordered a retreat, and on August 21 Riga was

NOTES 437 
occupied by the Germans. The city was surrendered by Kornilov 
in order to create a threat to revolutionary Petrograd, 
secure the withdrawal of the revolutionary army units from 
that city, and thus facilitate the plot against the revolution. 
p. 229 
70 Novoye Vremya (New Times)óan organ of the reactionary aristocratic 
and government bureaucratic circles, founded in 
St. Petersburg in 1868. In 1905 it became one of the organs of 
the Black Hundreds. It was suppressed in the latter part of 
October 1917. p. 234 
71 Russkiye Vedomosti (Russian News)óa newspaper representing 
the interests of the liberal landlords and bourgeois, founded 
in Moscow in 1863. It was suppressed, together with other 
counter-revolutionary papers, in 1918. p. 250 
72 In 1894 French reactionaries brought a false charge of espionage 
and high treason against Dreyfus, a Jewish officer of 
the French General Staff. He was court-martialled and sentenced 
to life imprisonment. The public movement in defence 
of Dreyfus which developed in France disclosed the corruptness 
of the court and exacerbated the political struggle between 
the republicans and monarchists. Dreyfus was pardoned and 
released in 1899. The case was reviewed in 1906 and he was 
exonerated. p. 266 
73 The Timesóa London daily, founded in 1788, influential 
organ of the British big bourgeoisie. p. 267 
74 Le Matinóa bourgeois daily, founded in Paris in 1884. p. 267 
75 The article ìEitheróOrî had been printed in slightly abbreviated 
form in Proletary, No. 10, August 24, 1917, under the 
title ìWhat Is the Way Out?î p. 271 
76 Russkaya Volya (Russian Will)óa bourgeois newspaper, financed 
by the big banks, published in Petrograd from December 15, 
1916, to October 25, 1917. p. 274

NOTES 438 
77 The article ìThe Conspiracy Continuesî appeared in Rabochy, 
No. 5, August 28, 1917, in a second, special one-page issue 
of the paper put out in connection with the Kornilov revolt. 
The article was reprinted the next day in Rabochy (No. 6, 
August 29) under the heading ìPolitical Comments.î p. 282 
78 Le Tempsóa bourgeois daily published in Paris from 1829 
to 1842 and from 1861 to 1942. p. 309 
79 The resolution of the Petrograd Soviet was published in Rabochy 
Put, No. 21, September 27, 1917. p. 335 
80 The railway strike lasted from September 24 to 26, 1917. The 
railway employees demanded pay increases, an eight-hour 
day and better food supplies. The strike spread to all the railways 
in the country and had the sympathy and support of 
the industrial workers. p. 336 
81 The Declaration of August 14 was announced as the program of 
the so-called ìrevolutionary democracyî by Chkheidze at 
the Moscow Conference of State on behalf of the Socialist-Revolutionary 
and Menshevik majorities in the Central Executive 
Committee of the Soviets of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies, 
the Executive Committee of the All-Russian Soviet of Peasantsí 
Deputies and other organizations. It urged support of 
the Provisional Government. p. 339 
82 Lieberdanists (or Lieberdans)óthe contemptuous nickname 
for the Menshevik leaders Lieber and Dan and their followers 
coined by the poet Demyan Bedny in a skit printed in the 
Moscow Bolshevik paper Sotsial-Demokrat, No. 141, August 
25, 1917, entitled ìLieberdan.î The nickname clung. p. 339 
83 Torgovo-Promyshlennaya Gazeta (Trade and Industrial News)óa 
bourgeois newspaper published in St. Petersburg from 1893 
to 1918. p. 340

NOTES 439 
84 Obshcheye Delo (Common Cause)óan evening daily newspaper 
published in Petrograd in September and October 1917 by 
V. Burtsev. It supported Kornilov and conducted a frenzied 
campaign of calumny against the Soviets and the Bolsheviks. 
p. 349 
85 The Second All-Russian Congress of Soviets of Workersí and 
Soldiersí Deputies, at which uyezd and gubernia Soviets 
of Peasantsí Deputies were represented, opened in Petrograd 
on October 25, 1917. It held two sessions in allóon the 25th 
and the 26th. There were 649 delegates present at the opening. 
The largest group were the Bolsheviks, with 390 delegates. 
The Mensheviks, Right-wing Socialist-Revolutionaries and 
Bundists left the congress soon after it opened, refusing to 
recognize the socialist revolution. 
The Second Congress of Soviets proclaimed the transfer 
of power to the Soviets and set up the first Soviet Government 
the Council of Peopleís Commissars. V. I. Lenin was 
elected Chairman of the Council of Peopleís Commissars, and 
J . V. Stalin Peopleís Commissar for the Affairs of Nationalities. 
p. 385 
86 The Defence Committee, or Executive Committee for National 
Defence, had been set up at a conference on defence convened 
by the Socialist-Revolutionary and Menshevik Central Executive 
Committee of the Soviet of Workersí and Soldiersí 
Deputies on August 7, 1917. The Defence Committee supported 
the military measures adopted by the Provisional Government 
in the interests of the bourgeois and landlord counterrevolution 
(withdrawal of the revolutionary troops from 
Petrograd, etc.). p. 397 
87 The reference is to the resolution drafted by V. I. Lenin and 
adopted by the Central Committee of the R.S.D.L.P.(B.) 
on October 10, 1917 (see V. I. Lenin, Works, 4th Russ. ed., 
Vol. 26, p. 162). p. 407

BIOGRAPHICAL CHRONICLE 
(March-October 1917) 
March 12 
March 14 
March 15 
March 16 
March 18 
April 3 
April 4 
J. V. Stalin, released by the February Revolution 
from exile in Turukhansk, arrives in 
Petrograd. 
J. V. Stalinís article ìThe Soviets of Workersí 
and Soldiersí Deputiesî appears in Pravda, 
No. 8. 
At an enlarged meeting of the Bureau of the 
C.C., R.S.D.L.P.(B.), J. V. Stalin is appointed 
to the editorial board of Pravda. 
J . V. Stalinís article ìThe Warî appears in 
Pravda, No. 10. 
The Bureau of the C.C., R.S.D.L.P.(B.) delegates 
J . V. Stalin to the Executive Committee 
of the Petrograd Soviet of Workersí 
and Soldiersí Deputies. 
J. V. Stalinís article ìConditions for the Victory 
of the Russian Revolutionî appears in 
Pravda, No. 12. 
At Byelo-Ostrov Station, Finland Railway, 
J. V. Stalin, M. I. Ulyanova and a delegation 
of Petrograd and Sestroretsk working men 
and women meet V. I. Lenin on his return from 
exile and accompany him to Petrograd. 
J . V. Stalin takes part in the conference of 
leading members of the Bolshevik Party and in 
the joint meeting of Bolshevik and Menshevik

BIOGRAPHICAL CHRONICLE 441 
April 6 
April 8 
April 14 
April 14-22 
April 18 
April 20 
April 24-29 
delegates to the All-Russian Conference of 
Soviets where V. I . Lenin expounds his 
April Theses. 
J. V. Stalin speaks in the debate on V. I. Leninís 
April Theses at a meeting of the Bureau of 
the Party Central Committee. 
J . V. Stalin signs a declaration of protest 
against the decision of the Executive Committee 
of the Petrograd Soviet supporting the 
so-called Liberty Loan. 
J. V. Stalinís article ìThe Land to the Peasantsî 
appears in Pravda, No. 32. 
J. V. Stalin takes part in the work of the Petrograd 
City Conference of the R.S.D.L.P.(B.). 
J . V. Stalin delivers a speech on ìThe Provisional 
Governmentî at a May Day meeting 
on Stock Exchange Square, Vasilyevsky Ostrov, 
Petrograd. 
J . V. Stalinís article ìMay Dayî appears in 
Pravda, No. 35. 
As a member of the Executive Committee of 
the Petrograd Soviet, J. V. Stalin attends the 
conference of members of the Provisional Government 
and the Provisional Committee of 
the State Duma wi t h representatives of the 
Executive Committee of the Petrograd Soviet 
of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies convened 
in the Mariinsky Palace in connection with 
Milyukovís Note of April 18. 
V. I . Lenin and J . V. Stalin guide the work 
of the Seventh (April) All-Russian Conference 
of the Bolshevik Party.

BIOGRAPHICAL CHRONICLE 442 
April 24 
April 29 
May 4 
May 10 
May 14 
May 21, 24, 26 
May 
June 3-24 
June 6 
J. V. Stalin speaks at the conference in support 
of Leninís resolution on the current situation 
and i s elected to the commission appointed 
to draft a resolution on V. I. Leninís report. 
J . V. Stalin makes a report on the national 
question at the conference and replies to the 
discussion. He is elected to the Central Committee 
of the Party. 
J . V. Stalinís article ìLagging Behind the 
Revolutionî appears in Pravda, No. 48. 
J. V. Stalin speaks at a meeting of the Petrograd 
Committee of the R.S.D.L.P.(B.) on the 
organizational structure of the Committee 
and on the municipal elections. 
J . V. Stalin speaks on the national question 
at a meeting and concert arranged by the Estonian 
Workersí and Soldiersí Club in the Stock 
Exchange on Vasilyevsky Ostrov. 
J. V. Stalinís article ìThe Municipal Election 
Campaignî appears in Pravda, Nos. 63, 64 
and 66. 
A Political Bureau of the Central Committee 
of the Bolshevik Party i s instituted, to 
which J . V. Stalin i s elected, and of which 
he has remained a member ever since. 
J . V. Stalin attends the sittings of the First 
All-Russian Congress of Soviets of Workersí 
and Soldiersí Deputies. 
At an enlarged meeting of the Central Committee, 
J. V. Stalin supports a proposal moved 
by V. I. Lenin to organize a peaceful demonstration 
of workers and soldiers.

BIOGRAPHICAL CHRONICLE 443 
Night of June 9 
June 13 
June 15 
June 16-23 
June 17 
J. V. Stalin makes a survey of the political situation 
in Petrograd at a private meeting of 
the Petrograd Committee of the R.S.D.L.P.(B.) 
devoted to the question of the demonstration. 
V. I . Lenin and J . V. Stalin attend a meeting 
of the Bolshevik group of the First All- 
Russian Congress of Soviets, and then a meeting 
of the C.C., R.S.D.L.P. ( B . ) . On the 
motion of V. I. Lenin and J. V. Stalin, the C.C. 
resolves to call off the demonstration appointed 
for June 10. 
Late that night V. I. Lenin and J. V. Stalin prepare 
the copy for Pravda and the directives of 
the Central Committee in connection with the 
latter ís decision to cancel the demonstration. 
J . V. Stalinís article ìYesterday and Today 
(Crisis of the Revolution)î appears in Soldatskaya 
Pravda, No. 42. 
J. V. Stalinís article ìResults of the Petrograd 
Municipal Electionsî appears in Bulletin of 
the Press Bureau of the C.C., R.S.D.L.P., No. 1. 
V. I . Lenin and J . V. Stalin direct the 
AII-Russian Conference of Front and Rear 
Army Organizations of the R.S.D.L.P.(B.). 
J . V. Stalin greets the All-Russian Conference 
of Front and Rear Army Organizations 
of the R.S.D.L.P.(B.) on behalf of the Central 
Committee of the Party. 
The appeal of the Central Committee and 
Petrograd Committee of the R.S.D.L.P.(B.), 
ìTo All the Toilers, to All the Workers and Soldiers 
of Petrograd,î written by J . V. Stalin, 
appears in Pravda, No. 84

BIOGRAPHICAL CHRONICLE 444 
June 20 
June 21 
June 22 
July 1-3 and 
16-20 
July 3 
July 4 
The First All-Russian Congress of Soviets 
elects J . V. Stalin a member of the Central 
Executive Committee. 
J. V. Stalin makes a report at the All-Russian 
Conference of Front and Rear Army Organizations 
of the R.S.D.L.P.(B.) on ìThe National 
Movement and National Regiments.î 
The conference approves a resolution on the 
national question moved by J. V. Stalin. 
At a meeting of the Central Executive Committee 
of the Soviets of Workersí and Soldiersí 
Deputies, the Bolshevik group elects 
J. V. Stalin to the Bureau of the C.E.C. 
At a private conference of members of the 
Central Committee, Petrograd Committee and 
Army Organization of the R.S.D.L.P.(B.), 
J . V. Stalin reports on a statement lodged 
with the Central Executive Committee by the 
Bolshevik group demanding vigorous measures 
against the growing counter-revolution. 
J . V. Stalin and Y. M. Sverdlov direct the 
Second (Emergency) Conference of the Petrograd 
organization of the Bolshevik Party. 
Under J. V. Stalinís guidance, the C.C. of the 
Bolshevik Party adopts a number of measures 
to restrain the masses from spontaneous 
armed demonstration. When it becomes clear 
that the movement cannot be stopped, the 
C.C. resolves to take part in the demonstration 
in order to lend i t a peaceful and organized 
character. 
At a meeting of the Central Executive Committee, 
J. V. Stalin demands that the spread

BIOGRAPHICAL CHRONICLE 445 
July 6 
July 7-8 
July 8-11 
July 11 
July 11-October 7 
July 15 
July 16 
July 20 
of calumnies against V. I . Lenin and the 
Bolsheviks be stopped. 
J. V. Stalin goes to the Fortress of Peter and 
Paul and succeeds in persuading the revolutionary 
sailors to refrain from armed action. 
J. V. Stalin secures the cancellation of the order 
issued by the Petrograd Military Command 
to employ armed force against the sailors. 
J . V. Stalin and G. K. Ordjonikidze confer 
with V. I. Lenin on the question of his leaving 
Petrograd. 
J. V. Stalin makes preparations for V. I. Leninís 
departure from Petrograd. 
J . V. Stalin and S. Y. Alliluyev accompany 
V. I . Lenin to Primorsk Station and put him 
on the train to Razliv. 
J . V. Stalin maintains close contact with 
V. I. Lenin in hiding, and, on his instructions, 
personally directs the activities of the Bolshevik 
Central Committee. 
J. V. Stalinís article ìClose the Ranks!î appears 
in the Kronstadt Proletarskoye Delo, 
No. 2. 
J . V. Stalin makes the Central Committeeís 
report on the July events at the morning session 
of the Second (Emergency) Conference of the 
Petrograd organization of the R.S.D.L.P.(B.), 
and a report on the current situation and replies 
to the discussion at the evening session. 
J . V. Stalin speaks at the conference in the 
debate on the elections to the Petrograd So

BIOGRAPHICAL CHRONICLE 446 
July 20-23 
July 23 
July 26-August 3 
July 27 
July 30 
July 31 
July 31-August 3 
August 3 
August 4 
viet of Workersí and Soldiersí Deputies and 
on other questions. 
J. V. Stalin writes the appeal ìTo All the Toilers, 
to All the Workers and Soldiers of Petrograd,î 
which is printed in Rabochy i Soldat, 
No. 2. 
J. V. Stalinís articles ìWhat Has Happened?î 
and ìVictory of the Counter-revolutionî appear 
in Rabochy i Soldat, No. 1. 
J . V. Stalin and Y. M. Sverdlov direct the 
Sixth Congress of the Bolshevik Party. 
J . V. Stalin makes the Central Committeeís 
report at the congress and replies to the discussion. 
J. V. Stalin delivers a report on the political 
situation at the congress. 
J . V. Stalin answers questions put by congress 
delegates and replies to the discussion 
on the political situation. 
J. V. Stalin directs the work of the commission 
set up by the Sixth Congress to draft the 
resolution on the political situation. 
J . V. Stalin submits the resolution on the 
political situation to the congress. 
J. V. Stalin is elected a member of the Central 
Committee of the Bolshevik Party. 
At a plenary meeting of the Party Central Committee 
J . V. Stalin i s appointed editor of 
Rabochy i Soldat.

BIOGRAPHICAL CHRONICLE 447 
August 5 
August 6 
August 8 
August 9 
August 13 
August 16 
August 17 
August 18 
August 22 
The plenary meeting of the C.C. elects 
J. V. Stalin a member of the Small Central Committee. 
J . V. Stalin attends a meeting of the Small 
Central Committee at which a resolution of 
the C.C., R.S.D.L.P.(B.) on the Moscow Conference 
is endorsed. 
J . V. Stalinís article ìAgainst the Moscow 
Conferenceî appears in Rabochy i Soldat, No. 14. 
J. V. Stalinís article ìMore on the Subject of 
Stockholmî appears in Rabochy i Soldat, 
No. 15. 
At the request of the Central Committee, 
J. V. Stalin organizes the publication of Proletary 
as the Partyís Central Organ. 
J. V. Stalinís article ìCounter-revolution and 
the Peoples of Russiaî appears in Proletary, 
No. 1. 
The Central Committee appoints J. V. Stalin 
to a commission set up to draft a resolution 
on the Stockholm Conference. 
J. V. Stalin delivers a lecture to soldiers on 
ìThe Social-Democrats and the City Electionsî 
in the premises of the Narva District Committee 
of the R.S.D.L.P.(B.). 
J. V. Stalinís articles ìThe Truth About Our 
Defeat at the Frontî and ìThe Causes of the 
July Defeat a t the Frontî appear in Proletary, 
No. 5. 
J. V. Stalinís article ìA Period of Provocationî 
appears in Proletary, No. 8.

BIOGRAPHICAL CHRONICLE 448 
August 26 
August 27 
August 28 
August 30 
August 31 
August-October 
September 6 
September 9 
September 15 
J . V. Stalinís article ìEitheróOrî appears 
in Rabochy, No. 1. 
A resolution of the Bolshevik group on the 
political situation, drafted by J. V. Stalin, is 
read out at a meeting of the Central Executive 
Committee. 
J. V. Stalinís article ìWe Demand!î appears 
in Rabochy, No. 4. 
J . V. Stalin attends a meeting of the Party 
Central Committee at which measures against 
Kornilovís counter-revolutionary action are 
discussed. 
J. V. Stalin attends a meeting of the Central 
Committee which discusses a declaration on 
the question of power. J . V. Stalin i s instructed 
to give a survey of the political situation 
at a plenary meeting of the Central Committee. 
J. V. Stalinís article ìAgainst Compromise With 
the Bourgeoisieî appears in Rabochy, No. 9. 
J . V. Stalin edits the Central Organ of the 
R.S.D.L.P.(B.), which appears successively 
under the names Proletary, Rabochy, and 
Rabochy Put. 
J. V. Stalinís article ìThey Wi l l Not Swerve 
>From Their Pathî appears in Rabochy Put, 
No. 3. 
J. V. Stalinís article ìThe Second Waveî appears 
in Rabochy Put, No. 6. 
At a meeting of the Central Committee of the 
Party, J. V. Stalin opposes Kamenevís demand

FROM MARX 
TO MAO 
 
NOT FOR 
COMMERCIAL 
DISTRIBUTION 
BIOGRAPHICAL CHRONICLE 
that V. I. Leninís letters, ìThe Bolsheviks Must 
Assume Powerî and ìMarxism and Insurrection,î 
should be burned, and recommends 
that they should be circulated for discussion 
among the bigger Party organizations. 
J . V. Stalinís article ìAll Power to the Soviets!î 
appears in Rabochy Put, No. 13. 
At a meeting of the Bolshevik group at the 
Democratic Conference, J. V. Stalin insists 
on the observance of V. I. Leninís directive to 
boycott the Pre-parliament. 
The Party Central Committee approves the 
l i s t of Bolshevik candidates to the Constituent 
Assembly, which includes V. I . Lenin 
and J. V. Stalin. 
J. V. Stalinís article ìA Government of Bourgeois 
Dictatorshipî appears in Rabochy Put, 
No. 21. 
J . V. Stalin delivers a speech on the Democratic 
Conference at a meeting of Bolsheviks 
of the Vasilyevsky Ostrov District. 
The Party Central Committee decides to publish 
a l i s t of candidates to the Constituent 
Assembly. J . V. Stalin i s nominated for 
the Petrograd, Yekaterinoslav, Transcaucasian 
and Stavropol electoral areas. 
J . V. Stalinís article ìYou Wi l l Wa i t in 
Vain!î appears in Rabochy Put, No. 23. 
At a meeting of the Central Committee i t is 
resolved on Stalinís motion to call a conference 
of members of the Central Committee 
September 17 
September 21 
September 23 
September 27 
September 28 
September 29 
October 5 
449

BIOGRAPHICAL CHRONICLE 450 
October 8 
October 10 
October 15 
October 16 
October 20 
and Petrograd and Moscow Party functionaries 
to take place at the time of the Congress of 
Soviets of the Northern Region. 
J . V. Stalin discusses preparations for an 
armed uprising with V. I . Lenin, who has 
secretly returned to Petrograd. 
V. I. Lenin and J. V. Stalin attend a meeting of 
the Party Central Committee where V. I. Leninís 
resolution on armed insurrection is approved 
and a seven-man Political Bureau of the C.C., 
headed by V. I. Lenin and J. V. Stalin, is set 
up to direct the uprising. 
J. V. Stalinís article ìThe Counter-revolution 
Is MobilizingóPrepare To Resist!î appears 
in Rabochy Put, No. 32. 
J . V. Stalinís articles ìA Study in Brazennessî 
and ìBlacklegs of the Revolutionî 
appear in Rabochy Put, No. 37. 
V. I . Lenin and J . V. Stalin direct an enlarged 
meeting of the Central Committee of the 
Bolshevik Party. J. V. Stalin sharply criticizes 
the speeches of the traitors Kamenev and Zinoviev 
on the question of armed insurrection. 
A Party Centre, headed by J. V. Stalin, is electedto 
direct the uprising. 
At a meeting of the Party Central Committee, 
J. V. Stalin proposes that V. I. Leninís letters 
on Kamenevís and Zinovievís blackleg actions 
be discussed a t a plenary meeting of the 
Central Committee. 
J. V. Stalin takes part in the first meeting of 
the Revolutionary Military Committee of the 
Petrograd Soviet.

BIOGRAPHICAL CHRONICLE 451 
October 21 
October 24 
October 24-25 
At a meeting of Petrograd trade union representatives 
in the Smolny, J. V. Stalin speaks 
on the preparations for armed insurrection. 
J . V. Stalin attends a meeting of the Party 
Central Committee which resolves to appoint 
him and Dzerzhinsky to the Executive Committee 
of the Petrograd Soviet in order to 
strengthen the influence of the Bolsheviks 
in i t . I t adopts Stalinís proposal that reports 
and theses should be prepared for the 
Second All-Russian Congress of Soviets on 
the land, the war, and the government (speaker, 
V. I. Lenin), and on the national question 
(speaker, J . V. Stalin). Stalin and Sverdlov 
are appointed to direct the Bolshevik group 
at the congress. 
At 11 a . m., Rabochy Put appears with 
J . V. Stalinís article ìWhat Do We Need?î 
calling for the overthrow of the Provisional 
Government. 
J. V. Stalin reports on the political situation at 
a meeting of the Bolshevik delegates to the 
Second All-Russian Congress of Soviets. 
In the evening V. I. Lenin arrives at the Smolny. 
J. V. Stalin informs him of the political 
developments. 
V. I . Lenin and J. V. Stalin direct the October 
armed uprising.

Printed in the Union of Soviet Socialist Republics





