




W O R K E R S O F A L L C O U N T R I E S, U N I T E !

From Marx to Mao 
ML 
© Digital Reprints 
2006

RUSSIAN EDITION 
PUBLISHED BY DECISION 
OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE 
OF THE COMMUNIST PARTY 
OF THE SOVIET UNION 
(BOLSHEVIKS)

. p...ma puu .cex cm pa., coe.u...mec.! 
..CT.T.T ...KC.‹......C.‹...... .p. .K .K.(.) 
n.b. CTAlnH 
.....E... 
 
. . . . 
............... ............ ............ .......... 
. o c . . a € 1 9 4 7

FOREIGN LANGUAGES PUBLISHING HOUSE 
M o s c o w € 1 9 5 3 
E 
FROM MARX 
TO MAO 
 
NOT FOR 
COMMERCIAL 
DISTRIBUTION 
J. V. STALIN 
w o R k s 
VOLUME 
§ 
!(@$


FROM MARX 
TO MAO 
 
NOT FOR 
COMMERCIAL 
DISTRIBUTION 
C O N T E N T S 
Page 
Preface . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . XIII 
THE DISCUSSION. Interview With a Rosta Correspondent, 
January 9, 1924 . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 
THIRTEENTH CONFERENCE OF THE R.C.P.(B.), January 
16-18, 1924 . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 
1. Report on Immediate Tasks in Party Affairs, 
January 17 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 
2. Reply to the Discussion, January 18 . . . . 27 
ON THE DEATH OF LENIN. A Speech Delivered at the 
Second All-Union Congress of Soviets, January 26, 1924. 47 
LENIN. A Speech Delivered at a Memorial Meeting of the 
Kremlin Military School, January 28, 1924 . . . . 54 
The Mountain Eagle . . . . . . . . . . . 54 
Modesty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56 
Force of Logic . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57 
No Whining . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57 
No Boasting . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 58 
Fidelity to Principle . . . . . . . . . . . 59 
Faith in the Masses . . . . . . . . . . . 62 
The Genius of Revolution . . . . . . . . . 63 
ON THE CONTRADICTIONS IN THE YOUNG COMMUNIST 
LEAGUE. Speech at the C.C., R.C.P.(B.) 
Conference on Work Among the Youth, April 3, 1924 67

CONTENTS VIII 
THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM. Lectures Delivered 
at the Sverdlov University . . . . . . . . . . 71 
I. The Historical Roots of Leninism . . . . . 74 
II. Method . . . . . . . . . . . . . 82 
III. Theory . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91 
IV. The Dictatorship of the Proletariat . . . . 111 
V. The Peasant Question . . . . . . . . . 126 
VI. The National Question . . . . . . . . 143 
VII. Strategy and Tactics . . . . . . . . . 155 
VIII. The Party. . . . . . . . . . . . . 170 
IX. Style in Work . . . . . . . . . . . 193 
THIRTEENTH CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.), May 
23-31, 1924 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 197 
Organisational Report of the Central Committee, May 24 199 
1. The Mass Organisations That Link the Party With the 
Class . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 200 
2. The State Apparatus . . . . . . . . . . . 206 
3. The Composition of the Party. The Lenin Enrolment 210 
4. The composition of Leading Party Bodies, Cadres and 
the Younger Party Element . . . . . . . . . 212 
5. The Work of the Party in the Sphere or Agitation and 
Propaganda . . . . . . . . . . . . . 215 
6. The Work of the Party in the Registration, Allocation 
and Promotion of Forces . . . . . . . 218 
7. Inner-Party Life . . . . . . . . . . . . 218 
8. Conclusions . . . . . . . . . . . . . 221 
Reply to the Discussion, May 27 . . . . . . . 231 
THE RESULTS OF THE THIRTEENTH CONGRESS OF 
THE R.C.P.(B.). Report Delivered at the C.C., R.C.P.(B.) 
Courses for Secretaries of Uyezd Party Committees, June 17, 
1924 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 246 
Foreign Affairs . . . . . . . . . . . . 247 
Questions of the Bond Between Town and Country 252

CONTENTS IX 
Questions of the Education and Re-education of the 
Working Masses . . . . . . . . . . . . . 260 
The Pa r ty . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 265 
The Tasks of Party Workers in the Uyezds . . . . 272 
WORKER CORRESPONDENTS. Interview With a Representative 
of the Magazine ³Rabochy Korrespondent² . . 274 
THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF POLAND. Speech Delivered 
at a Meeting of the Polish Commission of the Comintern, 
July 3, 1924 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 276 
A LETTER TO COMRADE DEMYAN BEDNY. July 
15, 1924 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 285 
Y. M. SVERDLOV . . . . . . . . . . . . . 289 
CONCERNING THE INTERNATIONAL SITUATION . . 292 
1. The Period of Bourgeois-Democratic ³Pacifism² 292 
2. The Intervention of America in European Affairs and 
the Entente¹s London Agreement on Reparations 298 
3. Strengthening of the Revolutionary Elements in 
the European Labour Movement. Growth of the 
International Popularity of the Soviet Union 304 
THE PARTY¹S IMMEDIATE TASKS IN THE COUNTRYSIDE. 
Speech Delivered at a Conference of Secretaries of 
Rural Party Units, Called by the Central Committee of 
the R.C.P.(B.), October 22, 1924 . . . . . . . . 315 
Defects in the Reports From the Localities . . 315 
The Party¹s Chief Defect‹the Weakness of Party 
Work in the Countryside . . . . . . . . 317 
Wherein Lies the Strength of Our Party in the Towns? 317 
Wherein Lies the Weakness of Our Work in the Countryside? 
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 318 
The Chief Task Is to Create a Peasant Active Around 
the Pa r ty . . . . . . . . . . . . . 319

CONTENTS X 
The Soviets Must Be Revitalised . . . . . . . 319 
The Approach to the Peasantry Must Be Changed . 320 
The Lessons of the Revolt in Geor gia. . . . . 321 
A Tactful Approach to the Peasantry Is Needed . . 323 
The Party¹s Chief Tasks . . . . . . . . . . 324 
Conditions for the Work . . . . . . . . . . 324 
The Chief Thing Is To Maintain Contact With the 
Millions of Non-Party People . . . . . . . . 325 
THE PARTY¹S TASKS IN THE COUNTRYSIDE. Speech 
Delivered at the Plenum of the Central Committee of 
the R.C.P.(B.), October 26, 1924 . . . . . . . 327 
ENTRY IN THE RED BOOK OF THE DYNAMO FACTORY, 
November 7, 1924 . . . . . . . . . 335 
TO THE FIRST CAVALRY ARMY . . . . . . . . 336 
TO KRESTYANSKAYA GAZETA . . . . . . . . 337 
TROTSKYISM OR LENINISM? Speech Delivered at the 
Plenum of the Communist Group in the A.U.C.C.T.U., 
November 19, 1924 . . . . . . . . . . . . 338 
I. The Facts About the October Uprising . . . 338 
II. The Party and the Preparation for October . . 346 
III. Trotskyism or Leninism? . . . . . . . . 363 
THE OCTOBER REVOLUTION AND THE TACTICS 
OF THE RUSSIAN COMMUNISTS. Preface to the Book 
³On the Road to October² . . . . . . . . . . 374 
I. The External and Internal Setting for the October 
Revolution . . . . . . . . . . . . . 374 
II. Two Specific Features of the October Revolution‹
or October and Trotsky¹s Theory of ³Permanent² 
Revolution . . . . . . . . . . 378

CONTENTS XI 
III. Certain Specific Features of the Tactics of the 
Bolsheviks During the Period of Preparation 
for October . . . . . . . . . . . . 398 
IV. The October Revolution as the Beginning of 
and the Pre-condition for the World Revolution 414 
Notes . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 421 
Biographical Chronicle (1924) . . . . . . . . . 439


PREFACE 
The sixth volume of J. V. Stalin¹s Works contains 
writings and speeches of the year 1924. 
This was the first year without V. I. Lenin. The Bolshevik 
Party and Soviet people continued their creative 
work of building socialism under Comrade Stalin¹s leadership. 
Comrade Stalin rallied the Party around its 
Central Committee and mobilised it for the struggle to 
build socialism in the U.S.S.R. 
The works of Comrade Stalin included in the present 
volume played a cardinal part in the ideological defeat 
of Trotskyism and other anti-Leninist groups, in the 
defence, substantiation and development of Leninism. 
The sixth volume opens with Comrade Stalin¹s interview 
with a Rosta* correspondent entitled ³The Discussion,² 
and with his report to the Thirteenth Conference 
of the R.C.P.(B.) on ³Immediate Tasks in Party 
Affairs,² which are devoted to the exposure of Trotskyism 
and the struggle for the ideological and organisational 
unity of the Bolshevik Party. 
In his speech at the Second All-Union Congress of 
Soviets, On the Death of Lenin, Comrade Stalin on 
* Russian Telegraph Agency.‹Tr.

PREFACE XIV 
behalf of the Bolshevik Party made his great vow sacredly 
to cherish and fulfil Lenin¹s behests. 
The volume includes J. V. Stalin¹s well-known work 
The Foundations of Leninism, in which he gives a 
masterly exposition and theoretical substantiation of 
Leninism. 
The ³Organisational Report of the Central Committee 
to the Thirteenth Congress of the R.C.P. (B.),² ³The Results 
of the Thirteenth Congress of the R.C.P. (B.),² ³Concerning 
the International Situation,² ³The Party¹s Immediate 
Tasks in the Countryside,² and other articles and 
speeches are devoted to questions of the international 
situation, the internal life and consolidation of the 
Party, the alliance of the working class and peasantry, 
and the education and re-education of the masses in 
the spirit of socialism. 
The volume concludes with The October Revolution 
and the Tactics of the Russian Communists, which gives 
a theoretical summing up of the experience of the Great 
October Socialist Revolution and substantiates and develops 
Lenin¹s teaching on the victory of socialism in one 
country. 
A Letter to Comrade Demyan Bedny is published for 
the first time in this volume. 
Marx-Engels-Lenin Institute 
of the C.P., C.P.S.U.(B.)

!(@$


THE DISCUSSION 
Interview With a Rosta Correspondent 
January 9, 1924 
The discussion which has extensively developed in 
the R.C.P.(B.) and its press will be conclusively summed 
up only by the All-Union Party Conference that is to 
take place in a week's time. But the resolutions that have 
already been received from local Party organisations 
leave no room for doubt that the Central Committee's 
position has the endorsement of over 90 per cent of the 
entire R.C.P.(B.) membership. 
The Party is well aware that our enemies are trying 
to make use of the discussion in order to spread all manner 
of fabrications about the supposed disintegration of 
the R.C.P.(B.), the weakening of Soviet power, etc. 
Such an appraisal of our discussion is, to say the least, 
ludicrous. In actual fact the discussions which have repeatedly 
arisen in our Party have invariably resulted 
in the elimination of differences. The Party has always 
emerged from these discussions still stronger and more 
united. The present discussion has revealed the extremely 
high degree of political maturity of the workingclass 
masses, who have in their hands the state power in 
the U.S.S.R. I must say‹and anyone acquainted with 
the discussion can convince himself of this‹that complete 
unanimity of opinion prevails among the overwhelming

J. V. S T A L I N 2
majority of the Party on all basic political and economic 
questions. The fundamentals of our foreign and home 
policy remain inviolable. 
The issues which are being so passionately debated 
at all meetings of Party organisations without exception 
are essentially the following: 
1) Ought our Party to be a united, independently 
acting organism with a united will; or, on the contrary, 
should we allow the formation of various factions and 
groups as contracting parties within the Party? 
2) Has the so-called New Economic Policy been justified 
in the main, or does it need to be reconsidered? 
Together with the overwhelming majority of the 
Party, the Central Committee is of the opinion that the 
Party must be united, and that the NEP does not require 
reconsideration. A small opposition group, which includes 
a couple of well-known names, holds a view different 
from that of the Party as a whole. 
By an exhaustive and, moreover, absolutely open 
discussion the Party is trying to elucidate all the details 
of this question. The Party conference will give its authoritative 
decision on it, and that decision will be binding 
on all Party members. 
I am convinced‹Comrade Stalin said in conclusion‹ 
that as a result of the discussion the Party will be stronger 
and more united than ever and will be able to cope 
still more successfully with the task of directing the life 
of our vast country in the conditions of the rapid economic 
and cultural progress that has begun. 
Newspaper Zarya Vostoka, No. 473, 
January 10, 1924

THIRTEENTH CONFERENCE 
OF THE R. C. P. (B.) 1 
January 16-18, 1924 
Thirteenth Conference 
of the Russian Communist 
Party (Bolsheviks). 
Bulletin. Moscow, 1924


1. REPORT ON IMMEDIATE TASKS 
IN PARTY AFFAIRS 
January 17 
Comrades, it is customary for our speakers at discussion 
meetings to begin with the history of the question: 
how the issue of inner-Party democracy arose, who 
was the first to say ³A,² who followed by saying ³B,² 
and so on. This method, I think, is not suitable for us, for 
it introduces an element of squabbling and mutual recrimination 
and leads to no useful results. I think that it 
will be much better to begin with the question of how 
the Party reacted to the Political Bureau resolution on 
democracy2 that was subsequently confirmed by the 
C.C. plenum. 
I must place on record that this resolution is the only 
one, I believe, in the whole history of our Party to have 
received the full‹I would say the absolutely unanimous‹
approval of the entire Party, following a vehement 
discussion on the question of democracy. Even the opposition 
organisations and units, whose general attitude has 
been one of hostility to the Party majority and the 
C.C., even they, for all their desire to find fault, have 
not found occasion or grounds for doing so. Usually 
in their resolutions these organisations and units, while 
acknowledging the correctness of the basic provisions 
of the Political Bureau resolution on inner-Party

J. V. S T A L I N 6
democracy, have attempted to distinguish themselves in 
some way from the other Party organisations by adding 
some sort of appendage to it. For example: yes, yours 
is a very good resolution, but don¹t offend Trotsky, or: 
your resolution is quite correct, but you are a little late, 
it would have been better to have done all this earlier. 
I shall not go into the question here of who is offending 
whom. I think that if we look into the matter properly, 
we may well find that the celebrated remark about Tit 
Titych fits Trotsky fairly well: ³Who would offend 
you, Tit Titych? You yourself will offend everyone!² 
(Laughter.) But as I have said, I shall not go into this 
question. I am even prepared to concede that someone 
really is offending Trotsky. But is that the point? What 
principles are involved in this question of offence? After 
all, it is a question of the principles of the resolution, 
not of who has offended whom. By this I want to say 
that even units and organisations that are open and 
sharp in their opposition, even they have not had the 
hardihood to raise any objections in principle to the resolution 
of the Political Bureau of the C.C. and Presidium 
of the Central Control Commission. I record this 
fact in order to note once more that it would be hard to 
find in the whole history of our Party another such instance 
of a resolution which, after the trials and tribulations 
of a vehement discussion, has met with such unanimous 
approval, and not only of the majority, but virtually 
of the entire Party membership. 
I draw two conclusions from this. The first is that 
the resolution of the Political Bureau and C.C.C. fully 
accords with the needs and requirements of the Party at 
the present time. The second is that the Party will emerge

THIRTEENTH CONFERENCE OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 7 
from this discussion on inner-Party democracy stronger 
and more united. This conclusion is, one might say, 
a well-aimed thrust at those of our ill wishers abroad 
who have long been rubbing their hands in glee over 
our discussion, in the belief that our Party would be 
weakened as a result of i t , and Soviet power disintegrated. 
I shall not dwell on the essence of inner-Party democracy. 
Its fundamentals have been set forth in the 
resolution, and the resolution has been discussed from 
A to Z by the entire Party. Why should I go over the 
same ground here? I shall only say one thing: evidently 
there will not be all-embracing, full democracy. What 
we shall have, evidently, will be democracy within the 
bounds outlined by the Tenth, Eleventh and Twelfth 
Congresses. You know very well what these bounds are 
and I shall not repeat them here. Nor shall I dilate on 
the point that the principal guarantee that inner-Party 
democracy becomes part of the flesh and blood of our 
Party is to strengthen the activity and understanding 
of the Party masses. This, too, is dealt with fairly extensively 
in our resolution. 
I pass to the subject of how some comrades among us, 
and some organisations, make a fetish of democracy, regarding 
it as something absolute, without relation to 
time or space. What I want to point out is that democracy 
is not something constant for all times and conditions; 
for there are times when its implementation is neither 
possible nor advisable. Two conditions, or two groups 
of conditions, internal and external, are required to make 
inner-Party democracy possible. Without them it is vain 
to speak of democracy.

J. V. S T A L I N 8 
It is necessary, firstly, that industry should develop, 
that there should be no deterioration in the material 
conditions of the working class, that the working class 
increase numerically, that its cultural standards advance, 
and that it advance qualitatively as well. It is necessary 
that the Party, as the vanguard of the working class, 
should likewise advance, above all qualitatively, and 
above all through recruitment among the country¹s 
proletarian elements. These conditions of an internal 
nature are absolutely essential if we are to pose the question 
of genuine, and not merely paper, implementation 
of inner-Party democracy. 
But these conditions alone are not enough. I have 
already said that there is another group of conditions, 
of an external nature, and in the absence of these democracy 
in the Party is impossible. I have in mind certain 
international conditions that would more or less ensure 
peace and peaceful development, without which democracy 
in the Party is inconceivable. In other words, if 
we are attacked and have to defend the country with 
arms in hand, there can be no question of democracy, 
for it will have to be suspended. The Party mobilises, 
we shall probably have to militarise it, and the question 
of inner-Party democracy will disappear of itself. 
That is why I believe that democracy must be regarded 
as dependent on conditions, that there must be no 
fetishism in questions of inner-Party democracy, for its 
implementation, as you see, depends on the specific 
conditions of time and place at each given moment. 
To obviate undesirable infatuation and unfounded accusations 
in future, I must also remind you of the obstacles 
confronting the Party in the exercise of democracy‹ob

THIRTEENTH CONFERENCE OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 9 
stacles which hinder the implementation of democracy 
even when the two basic favourable conditions outlined 
above, internal and external, obtain. Comrades, these 
obstacles exist, they profoundly influence our Party¹s 
activities, and I have no right to pass them over in silence. 
What are these obstacles? 
These obstacles, comrades, consist, firstly, in the 
fact that in the minds of a section of our Party functionaries 
there still persist survivals of the old, war period, 
when the Party was militarised. And these survivals 
engender certain un-Marxist views: that our Party is 
not an independently acting organism, independent in 
its ideological and practical activities, but something in 
the nature of a system of institutions‹lower, intermediate 
and higher. This absolutely un-Marxist view has 
nowhere, it is true, been given final form and has nowhere 
been expressed definitely, but elements of it exist among 
a section of our Party functionaries and deter them from 
the consistent implementation of inner-Party democracy. 
That is why the struggle against such views, the struggle 
against survivals of the war period, both at the centre 
and in the localities, is an immediate task of the Party. 
The second obstacle to the implementation of democracy 
in the Party is the pressure of the bureaucratic 
state apparatus on the Party apparatus, on our Party 
workers. The pressure of this unwieldy apparatus on our 
Party workers is not always noticeable, not always does 
it strike the eye, but it never relaxes for an instant. The 
ultimate effect of this pressure of the unwieldy bureaucratic 
state apparatus is that a number of our functionaries, 
both at the centre and in the localities, often involuntarily 
and quite unconsciously, deviate from inner-Party

J. V. S T A L I N 10 
democracy, from the line which they believe to be correct, 
but which they are often unable to carry out completely. 
You can well visualise it: the bureaucratic state 
apparatus with not less than a million employees, largely 
elements alien to the Party, and our Party apparatus 
with not more than 20,000-30,000 people, who are 
called upon to bring the state apparatus under the Party¹s 
sway and make it a socialist apparatus. What would 
our state apparatus be worth without the support of the 
Party? Without the assistance and support of our Party 
apparatus, it would not be worth much, unfortunately. 
And every time our Party apparatus extends its feelers 
into the various branches of the state administration, 
it is quite often obliged to adapt Party activities there to 
those of the state apparatus. Concretely: the Party has to 
carry on work for the political education of the working 
class, to heighten the latter¹s political understanding, but 
at the same time there is the tax in kind to be collected, 
some campaign or other that has to be carried out; for 
without these campaigns, without the assistance of the 
Party, the state apparatus cannot cope with its duties. 
And here our Party functionaries find themselves between 
two fires‹they must rectify the line of the state apparatus, 
which still works according to old patterns, and at the 
same time they must retain contact with the workers. And 
often enough they themselves become bureaucratised. 
Such is the second obstacle, which is a difficult one to 
surmount, but which must be surmounted at all costs to 
facilitate the implementation of inner-Party democracy. 
Lastly, there is yet a third obstacle in the way of 
realising democracy. It is the low cultural level of a 
number of our organisations, of our units, particularly

THIRTEENTH CONFERENCE OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 11 
in the border regions (no offence to them meant), which 
hampers our Party organisations in fully implementing 
inner-Party democracy. You know that democracy requires 
a certain minimum of cultural development on the 
part of the members of the unit, and of the organisation as 
a whole; it requires a certain minimum of active members 
who can be elected and placed in executive posts. And 
if there is no such minimum of active members in the 
organisation, if the cultural level of the organisation 
itself is low, what then? Naturally, in that case we are 
obliged to deviate from democracy, resorting to appointment 
of officials and so on. 
Such are the obstacles that have confronted us, which 
will continue to confront us, and which we must overcome 
if inner-Party democracy is to be implemented 
sincerely and completely. 
I have reminded you of the obstacles that confront 
us, and of the external and internal conditions without 
which democracy becomes an empty, demagogic phrase, 
because some comrades make a fetish, an absolute, of 
the question of democracy. They believe that democracy 
is possible always, under all conditions, and that its 
implementation is prevented only by the ³evil² will of 
the ³apparatus men.² It is to oppose this idealistic 
view, a view that is not ours, not Marxist, not Leninist, 
that I have reminded you, comrades, of the conditions 
necessary for the implementation of democracy, and of 
the obstacles confronting us at the present time. 
Comrades, I could conclude my report with this, 
but I consider that it is our duty to sum up the discussion 
and to draw from this summing-up certain 
conclusions which may prove of great importance for us.

J. V. S T A L I N 12 
I could divide our whole struggle in the field of the 
discussion, on the question of democracy, into three 
periods. 
The first period, when the opposition attacked the 
C.C., with the accusation that in these past two years, 
in fact throughout the NEP period, the whole line of 
the C.C. has been wrong. This was the period prior to 
the publication of the Political Bureau and C.C.C. 
Presidium resolution. I shall not deal here with the 
question of who was right and who wrong. The attacks 
were violent ones, and as you know, not always warranted. 
But one thing is clear: this period can be described 
as one in which the opposition levelled its bitterest 
attacks on the C.C. 
The second period began with the publication of the 
Political Bureau and C.C.C. resolution, when the opposition 
was faced with the necessity of advancing something 
comprehensive and concrete against the C.C. resolution, 
and when it was found that the opposition had nothing 
either comprehensive or concrete to offer. That was a 
period in which the C.C. and the opposition came closest 
together. To all appearances the whole thing was coming 
to an end, or could have come to an end, through some 
reconciliation of the opposition to the C.C. line. 
I well remember a meeting in Moscow, the centre of the 
discussion struggle‹I believe it was on December 12 
in the Hall of Columns‹when Preobrazhensky submitted 
a resolution which for some reason was rejected, but which 
had little to distinguish it from the C.C. resolution. In 
fundamentals, and even in certain minor points, it did 
not differ at all from the C.C. resolution. And at that 
time it seemed to me that, properly speaking, there was

THIRTEENTH CONFERENCE OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 13 
nothing to continue fighting over. We had the C.C. resolution, 
which satisfied everyone, at least as regards 
nine-tenths of it; the opposition itself evidently realised 
this and was prepared to meet us halfway; and with this, 
perhaps, we would put an end to the disagreements. 
This was the second, reconciliation period. 
But then came the third period. I t opened with 
Trotsky¹s pronouncement, his appeal to the districts, 
which, at one stroke, wiped out the reconciliation tendencies 
and turned everything topsy-turvy. Trotsky¹s pronouncement 
opened a period of most violent inner-Party 
struggle‹a struggle which would not have occurred had 
Trotsky not come out with his letter on the very next day 
after he had voted for the Political Bureau resolution. You 
know that this first pronouncement of Trotsky¹s was followed 
by a second, and the second by a third, with the result 
that the struggle grew still more acute. 
I think, comrades, that in these pronouncements 
Trotsky committed at least six grave errors. These errors 
aggravated the inner-Party struggle. I shall proceed to 
analyse them. 
Trotsky¹s first error lies in the very fact that he came 
out with an article on the next day after the publication 
of the C.C. Political Bureau and C.C.C. resolution; with 
an article which can only be regarded as a platform 
advanced in opposition to the C.C. resolution. I repeat 
and emphasise that this article can only be regarded 
as a new platform, advanced in opposition to the 
unanimously adopted C.C. resolution. Just think of 
it, comrades: on a certain date the Political Bureau 
and the Presidium of the C.C.C. meet and discuss 
a resolution on inner-Party democracy. The resolution

J. V. S T A L I N 14 
is adopted unanimously, and only a day later, independently 
of the C.C., disregarding its will and over its 
head, Trotsky¹s article is circulated to the districts. 
It is a new platform and raises anew the issues of the 
apparatus and the Party, cadres and youth, factions and 
Party unity, and so on and so forth‹a platform immediately 
seized upon by the entire opposition and advanced 
as a counterblast to the C.C. resolution. This can only 
be regarded as opposing oneself to the Central Committee. 
It means that Trotsky puts himself in open and 
outright opposition to the entire C.C. The Party was 
confronted with the question: have we a C.C. as our 
directing body, or does it no longer exist; is there a 
C.C. whose unanimous decisions are respected by its 
members, or is there only a superman standing above 
the C.C., a superman for whom no laws are valid and 
who can permit himself to vote for the C.C. resolution 
today, and to put forward and publish a new platform in 
opposition to this resolution tomorrow? Comrades, we 
cannot demand that workers submit to Party discipline if 
a C.C. member, openly, in the sight of all, ignores the 
Central Committee and its unanimously adopted decision. 
We cannot apply two disciplines: one for workers, 
the other for big-wigs. There must be a single discipline. 
Trotsky¹s error consists in the fact that he has set 
himself up in opposition to the C.C. and imagines himself 
to be a superman standing above the C.C., above 
its laws, above its decisions, thereby providing a certain 
section of the Party with a pretext for working to undermine 
confidence in the C.C. 
Some comrades have expressed dissatisfaction that 
Trotsky¹s anti-Party action was treated as such in cer

THIRTEENTH CONFERENCE OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 15 
tain Pravda articles and in articles by individual members 
of the C.C. To these comrades I must reply that no party 
could respect a C.C. which at this difficult time failed 
to uphold the Party¹s dignity, when one of its members 
attempted to put himself above the entire C.C. The 
C.C. would have committed moral suicide had it passed 
over this attempt of Trotsky¹s. 
Trotsky¹s second error is his ambiguous behaviour 
during the whole period of the discussion. He has grossly 
ignored the will of the Party, which wants to know what 
his real position is, and has diplomatically evaded answering 
the question put point-blank by many organisations: 
for whom, in the final analysis, does Trotsky 
stand‹for the C.C. or for the opposition? The discussion 
is not being conducted for evasions but in order that the 
whole truth may be placed frankly and honestly before 
the Party, as Ilyich does and as every Bolshevik is 
obliged to do. We are told that Trotsky is seriously ill. Let 
us assume he is; but during his illness he has written 
three articles and four new chapters of the pamphlet 
which appeared today. Is it not clear that Trotsky could 
perfectly well write a few lines in reply to the question 
put to him by various organisations and state whether 
he is for the opposition or against the opposition? It need 
hardly be said that this ignoring of the will of a number 
of organisations was bound to aggravate the inner-Party 
struggle. 
Trotsky¹s third error is that in his pronouncements 
he puts the Party apparatus in opposition to the Party 
and advances the slogan of combating the ³apparatus 
men.² Bolshevism cannot accept such contrasting of 
the Party to the Party apparatus. What, actually, does

J. V. S T A L I N 16 
our Party apparatus consist of? It consists of the Central 
Committee, the Regional Committees, the Gubernia 
Committees, the Uyezd Committees. Are these subordinated 
to the Party? Of course they are, for to the extent of 90 
per cent they are elected by the Party. Those who say that 
the Gubernia Committees have been appointed are wrong. 
They are wrong, because, as you know, comrades, our 
Gubernia Committees are elected, just as the Uyezd 
Committees and the C.C. are. They are subordinated to 
the Party. But once elected, they must direct the work, 
that is the point. Is Party work conceivable without 
direction from the Central Committee, after its election 
by the congress, and from the Gubernia Committee, 
after its election by the Gubernia conference? Surely, 
Party work is inconceivable without this. Surely, this is 
an irresponsible anarcho-Menshevik view which renounces 
the very principle of direction of Party activities. 
I am afraid that by contrasting the Party apparatus 
to the Party, Trotsky, whom, of course, I have no intention 
of putting on a par with the Mensheviks, impels 
some of the inexperienced elements in our Party towards 
the standpoint of anarcho-Menshevik indiscipline 
and organisational laxity. I am afraid that this 
error of Trotsky¹s may expose our entire Party apparatus‹
the apparatus without which the Party is 
inconceivable‹to attack by the inexperienced members 
of the Party. 
Trotsky¹s fourth error consists in the fact that he 
has put the young members of the Party in opposition to 
its cadres, that he has unwarrantedly accused our cadres 
of degeneration. Trotsky put our Party on a par with the 
Social-Democratic Party in Germany. He referred to

THIRTEENTH CONFERENCE OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 17 
examples how certain disciples of Marx, veteran Social- 
Democrats, had degenerated, and from this he concluded 
that the same danger of degeneration faces our Party 
cadres. Properly speaking, one might well laugh at the 
sight of a C.C. member who only yesterday fought Bolshevism 
hand in hand with the opportunists and Mensheviks, 
attempting now, in this seventh year of Soviet power, 
to assert, even if only as an assumption, that our Party 
cadres, born, trained and steeled in the struggle against 
Menshevism and opportunism‹that these cadres are faced 
with the prospect of degeneration. I repeat, one might 
well laugh at this attempt. Since, however, this assertion 
was made at no ordinary time but during a discussion, 
and since we are confronted here with a certain contrasting 
of the Party cadres, who are alleged to be susceptible 
to degeneration, to the young Party members, who 
are alleged to be free, or almost free, of such a danger, 
this assumption, though essentially ridiculous and frivolous, 
may acquire, and already has acquired, a definite 
practical significance. That is why I think we must stop 
to look into it. 
It is sometimes said that old people must be respected, 
for they have lived longer than the young, know 
more and can give better advice. I must say, comrades, 
that this is an absolutely erroneous view. It is not every 
old person we must respect, and it is not every experience 
that is of value to us. What matters is the kind of experience. 
German Social-Democracy has its cadres, very 
experienced ones too: Scheidemann, Noske, Wels and 
the rest; men with the greatest experience, men who know 
all the ins and outs of the struggle. . . . But struggle 
against what, and against whom? What matters is the

J. V. S T A L I N 18 
kind of experience. In Germany these cadres were trained 
in the struggle against the revolutionary spirit, not in 
the struggle for the dictatorship of the proletariat, but 
against it. Their experience is vast; but it is the wrong 
kind of experience. Comrades, it is the duty of the youth 
to explode this experience, demolish it and oust these 
old ones. There, in German Social-Democracy, the youth, 
being free of the experience of struggle against the revolutionary 
spirit, is closer to this revolutionary spirit or 
closer to Marxism, than the old cadres. The latter are 
burdened with the experience of struggle against the 
revolutionary spirit of the proletariat, they are burdened 
with the experience of struggle for opportunism, against 
revolutionism. Such cadres must be routed, and all our 
sympathies must be with that youth which, I repeat, is 
free of this experience of struggle against the revolutionary 
spirit and for that reason can the more easily assimilate 
the new ways and methods of struggle for the dictatorship 
of the proletariat, against opportunism. There, 
in Germany, I can understand the question being put 
in that way. If Trotsky were speaking of German Social- 
Democracy and the cadres of such a party, I would 
be wholeheartedly prepared to endorse his statement. 
But we are dealing with a different party, the Communist 
Party, the Bolshevik Party, whose cadres came into being 
in the struggle against opportunism, gained strength in 
that struggle, and which matured and captured power in 
the struggle against imperialism, in the struggle against 
all the opportunist hangers-on of imperialism. Is it not 
clear that there is a fundamental difference here? Our 
cadres matured in the struggle to assert the revolutionary 
spirit; they carried that struggle through to the end,

THIRTEENTH CONFERENCE OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 19 
they came to power in battles against imperialism, and 
they are now shaking the foundations of world imperialism. 
How can these cadres‹if one approaches the matter 
honestly, without duplicity‹how can these cadres be 
put on a par with those of German Social-Democracy, 
which in the past worked hand in glove with Wilhelm 
against the working class, and is now working hand in 
glove with Seeckt; a party which grew up and was formed 
in the struggle against the revolutionary spirit of the proletariat? 
How can these cadres, fundamentally different 
in nature, be put on a par, how can they be confused? 
Is it so difficult to realise that the gulf between the two 
is unbridgeable? Is it so difficult to see that Trotsky¹s 
gross misrepresentation, his gross confusion, are calculated 
to undermine the prestige of our revolutionary 
cadres, the core of our Party? Is it not clear that this 
misrepresentation could only inflame passions and render 
the inner-Party struggle more acute? 
Trotsky¹s fifth error is to raise in his letters the 
argument and slogan that the Party must march in step 
with the student youth, ³our Party¹s truest barometer.² 
³The youth‹the Party¹s truest barometer‹react most 
sharply of all against Party bureaucracy,² he says in 
his first article. And in order that there be no doubt 
as to what youth he has in mind, Trotsky adds in his 
second letter: ³Especially sharply, as we have seen, does 
the student youth react against bureaucracy.² If we were 
to proceed from this proposition, an absolutely incorrect 
one, theoretically fallacious and practically harmful, 
we should have to go further and issue the slogan: ³More 
student youth in our Party; open wide the doors of our 
Party to the student youth.²

J. V. S T A L I N 20 
Hitherto the policy has been to orientate ourselves 
on the proletarian section of our Party, and we have said: 
³Open wide the doors of the Party to proletarian elements; 
our Party must grow by recruiting proletarians.² 
Now Trotsky turns this formula upside down. 
The question of intellectuals and workers in our Party 
is no new one. It was raised as far back as the Second 
Congress of our Party when it was a question of the formulation 
of paragraph 1 of the Rules, on Party membership. 
As you know, Martov demanded at the time that the 
framework of the Party be expanded to include non-proletarian 
elements, in opposition to Comrade Lenin, who 
insisted that the admission of such elements into the 
Party be strictly limited. Subsequently, at the Third 
Congress of our Party, the issue arose again, with new 
force. I recall how sharply, at that congress, Comrade 
Lenin put the question of workers and intellectuals in 
our Party. This is what Comrade Lenin said at the time: 
³It has been pointed out that usually splits have been 
headed by intellectuals. This is a very important point, but it 
is not decisive. . . . I believe we must take a broader view of the 
matter. The bringing of workers on to the committees is not only 
a pedagogical, but also a political task. Workers have class instinct, 
and given a little political experience they fairly soon 
develop into staunch Social-Democrats. I would be very much in 
sympathy with the idea that our committees should contain eight 
workers to every two intellectuals² (see Vol. VII, p. 282*). 
That is how the question stood as early as 1905. Ever 
since, this injunction of Comrade Lenin¹s has been 
* In this and other references to Lenin¹s Works, Roman numerals 
indicate volumes of the Third Russian Edition of 
V. I. Lenin¹s Works.‹Tr.

THIRTEENTH CONFERENCE OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 21 
our guiding principle in building the Party. But now 
Trotsky proposes, in effect, that we break with the organisational 
line of Bolshevism. 
And, finally, Trotsky¹s sixth error lies in his proclaiming 
freedom of groups. Yes, freedom of groups! 
I recall that already in the sub-commission which drew 
up the draft resolution on democracy we had an argument 
with Trotsky on groups and factions. Trotsky 
raised no objection to the prohibition of factions, but 
vehemently defended the idea of permitting groups within 
the Party. That view is shared by the opposition. 
Evidently, these people do not realise that by permitting 
freedom of groups they open a loophole for the Myasnikov 
elements, and make it easier for them to mislead 
the Party and represent factions as groups. Indeed, is 
there any difference between a group and a faction? 
Only an outward one. This is how Comrade Lenin defines 
factionalism, identifying it with groups: 
³Even before the general Party discussion on the trade unions, 
certain signs of factionalism were apparent in the Party, namely, 
the formation of groups with separate platforms, striving to a certain 
degree to segregate themselves and to establish a group discipline 
of their own² (see Stenographic Report of the Tenth Congress, 
R.C.P.(B.), p. 309). 
As you see, there is essentially no difference here 
between factions and groups. And when the opposition 
set up its own bureau here in Moscow, with Serebryakov 
as its head; when it began to send out speakers with instructions 
to address such and such meetings and raise 
such and such objections; and when, in the course of 
the struggle, these oppositionists were compelled to

J. V. S T A L I N 22 
retreat and changed their resolutions by command; this, 
of course, was evidence of the existence of a group and of 
group discipline. But we are told that this was not a faction; 
well, let Preobrazhensky explain what a faction is. 
Trotsky¹s pronouncements, his letters and articles on 
the subject of generations and of factions, are designed 
to induce the Party to tolerate groups within its midst. 
This is an attempt to legalise factions, and Trotsky¹s 
faction above all. 
Trotsky affirms that groups arise because of the bureaucratic 
regime instituted by the Central Committee, 
and that if there were no bureaucratic regime, there 
would be no groups either. This is an un-Marxist approach, 
comrades. Groups arise, and will continue to arise, 
because we have in our country the most diverse forms 
of economy‹from embryonic forms of socialism down 
to medievalism. That in the first place. Then we have the 
NEP, that is, we have allowed capitalism, the revival 
of private capital and the revival of the ideas that go 
with it, and these ideas are penetrating into the Party. 
That in the second place. And, in the third place, our 
Party is made up of three component parts: there are workers, 
peasants and intellectuals in its ranks. These then, 
if we approach the question in a Marxist way, are the 
causes why certain elements are drawn from the Party 
for the formation of groups, which in some cases we must 
remove by surgical action, and in others dissolve by 
ideological means, through discussion. 
It is not a question of regime here. There would be 
many more groups under a regime of maximum freedom. 
So it is not the regime that is to blame, but the conditions 
in which we live, the conditions that exist in our

THIRTEENTH CONFERENCE OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 23 
country, the conditions governing the development of 
the Party itself. 
If we were to allow groups in this situation, under 
these complex conditions, we would ruin the Party, convert 
it from the monolithic, united organisation that it is 
into a union of groups and factions contracting with one 
another and entering into temporary alliances and agreements. 
That would not be a party. It would be the collapse 
of the Party. Never, for a single moment, have the 
Bolsheviks conceived of the Party as anything but a 
monolithic organisation, hewed from a single block, 
possessing a single will and in its work uniting all 
shades of thought into a single current of practical activities. 
But what Trotsky suggests is profoundly erroneous; 
it runs counter to Bolshevik organisational principles, 
and would inevitably lead to the disintegration of the 
Party, making i t lax and soft, converting i t from a 
united party into a federation of groups. Living as we 
do in a situation of capitalist encirclement, we need not 
only a united party, not only a solid party, but a veritable 
party of steel, one capable of withstanding the 
assault of the enemies of the proletariat, capable of leading 
the workers to the final battle. 
What are the conclusions? 
The first conclusion is that we have produced a concrete, 
clear-cut resolution summing up the present discussion. 
We have declared: groups and factions cannot be 
tolerated, the Party must be united, monolithic, the Party 
must not be put in opposition to the apparatus, there must 
be no idle talk of our cadres being in danger of degeneration, 
for they are revolutionary cadres, there must be no

J. V. S T A L I N 24 
searching for cleavages between these revolutionary cadres 
and the youth, which is marching in step with these cadres 
and will continue to do so in future. 
There are also certain positive conclusions. The first 
and fundamental one is that henceforth the Party must 
resolutely orientate itself on, and take as its criterion, 
the proletarian section of our Party, that it must narrow 
and reduce, or eliminate altogether, the possibility of 
entry of non-proletarian elements, and open the doors 
wider to proletarian elements. 
As for groups and factions, I believe that the time 
has come when we must make public the clause in the 
unity resolution which on Comrade Lenin¹s proposal was 
adopted by the Tenth Congress of our Party and was not 
intended for publication. Party members have forgotten 
about this clause. I am afraid not everyone remembers 
it. This clause, which has hitherto remained secret, should 
now be published and incorporated in the resolution which 
we shall adopt on the results of the discussion. With your 
permission I shall read it. Here is what it says: 
³In order to ensure strict discipline within the Party and in 
all Soviet work and to secure the maximum unanimity, doing 
away with all factionalism, the congress authorises the Central 
Committee, in case (cases) of breach of discipline or of a revival 
or toleration of factionalism, to apply all Party penalties, up to 
and including expulsion from the Party and, in regard to members 
of the Central Committee, to reduce them to the status of candidate 
members and even, as an extreme measure, to expel them from 
the Party. A condition for the application of such an extreme 
measure (to members and candidate members of the C.C. and 
members of the Control Commission) must be the convocation of a 
plenum of the Central Committee, to which all candidate members 
of the Central Committee and all members of the Control Commission

THIRTEENTH CONFERENCE OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 25 
shall be invited. If such a general assembly of the most responsible 
leaders of the Party, by a two-thirds majority, considers 
it necessary to reduce a member of the Central Committee to the 
status of a candidate member, or to expel him from the Party, 
this measure shall be put into effect immediately.² 
I think that we must incorporate this clause in the 
resolution on the results of the discussion, and make it 
public. 
Lastly, a question which the opposition keeps raising 
and to which, apparently, they do not always receive a 
satisfactory reply. The opposition often asks: Whose 
sentiments do we, the opposition, express? I believe that 
the opposition expresses the sentiments of the non-proletarian 
section of our Party. I believe that the opposition, 
perhaps unconsciously and involuntarily, serves as 
the unwitting vehicle of the sentiments of the non-proletarian 
elements in our Party. I believe that the opposition, 
in its unrestrained agitation for democracy, which 
it so often makes into an absolute and a fetish, is unleashing 
petty-bourgeois elemental forces. 
Are you acquainted with the sentiments of such comrades 
as the students Martynov, Kazaryan and the rest? 
Have you read Khodorovsky¹s article in Pravda which 
cites passages from the speeches of these comrades? Here, 
for instance, is a speech by Martynov (he is a Party member, 
it appears): ³It is our business to make decisions, and 
the business of the C.C. to carry them out and to indulge 
less in argument.² This refers to a Party unit in a college 
of the People¹s Commissariat of Transport. But, comrades, 
the Party has a total of at least 50,000 units and 
if each of them is going to regard the C.C. in this way, 
holding that it is the business of the units to decide,

J. V. S T A L I N 26 
and of the C.C. not to argue, I am afraid that we shall 
never arrive at any decision. Whence comes this sentiment 
of the Martynovs? What is there proletarian about 
it? And the Martynovs, mind you, support the opposition. 
Is there any difference between Martynov and 
Trotsky? Only in the fact that Trotsky launched the attack 
on the Party apparatus, while Martynov is driving that 
attack home. 
And here is another college student, Kazaryan, who, 
it appears, is also a Party member. ³What have we got,² 
he demands, ³a dictatorship of the proletariat or a dictatorship 
of the Communist Party over the proletariat?² 
This, comrades, comes not from the Menshevik Martov 
but from the ³Communist² Kazaryan. The difference 
between Trotsky and Kazaryan is that according to 
Trotsky our cadres are degenerating, but according to 
Kazaryan they should be driven out, for in his opinion 
they have saddled themselves on the proletariat. 
I ask: Whose sentiments do the Martynovs and Kazaryans 
express? Proletarian sentiments? Certainly not. 
Whose then? The sentiments of the non-proletarian elements 
in the Party and in the country. And is it an accident 
that these exponents of non-proletarian sentiments 
vote for the opposition? No, it is no accident. (Applause.)

2. REPLY TO THE DISCUSSION 
January 18 
I said in my report that I did not wish to touch on 
the history of the question because that would introduce 
an element of squabbling, as I put it, and mutual recrimination. 
But since Preobrazhensky wishes it, since he 
insists, I am prepared to comply and say a few words on 
the history of the question of inner-Party democracy. 
How did the question of inner-Party democracy arise 
in the C.C.? It came up for the first time at the C.C. 
plenum in September, in connection with the conflicts 
that had developed in the factories and the fact, then 
brought out by us, that certain Party and trade-union 
organisations had become isolated from the masses. The 
C.C. took the view that this was a serious matter, that 
shortcomings had accumulated in the Party and that a 
special authoritative commission ought to be set up to 
look into the matter, study the facts and submit concrete 
proposals on how to improve the situation in the 
Party. The same thing applies to the marketing crisis, 
the price ³scissors.² The opposition took no part at all 
in raising those questions or in electing the commissions 
on the inner-Party situation and on the ³scissors² problem. 
Where was the opposition at the time? If I am not 
mistaken, Preobrazhensky was then in the Crimea and

J. V. S T A L I N 28 
Sapronov in Kislovodsk. Trotsky, then in Kislovodsk, was 
finishing his articles on art and was about to return to 
Moscow. They had not yet returned when the Central 
Committee raised this question at its meeting. They came 
back to find a ready decision and did not intervene with 
a single word, nor did they raise a single objection to 
the C.C. plan. The situation in the Party was the subject 
of a report read by Comrade Dzerzhinsky at a conference 
of Gubernia Committee secretaries in September. I affirm 
that neither at the September plenum, nor at the 
secretaries¹ conference, did the present members of the 
opposition so much as hint by a single word at a ³severe 
economic crisis,² or a ³crisis in the Party,² or the ³democracy² 
issue. 
So you see that the questions of democracy and of 
the ³scissors² were raised by the Central Committee itself; 
the initiative was entirely in the hands of the C.C., 
while the members of the opposition remained silent‹ 
they were absent. 
That, so to speak, was Act I, the initial stage in the 
history of the issue. 
Act II began with the plenum of the C.C. and C.C.C. 
in October. The opposition, headed by Trotsky, seeing 
that the question of shortcomings in the Party was in 
the air, that the C.C. had already taken the matter in 
hand and had formed commissions, and lest‹God forbid‹
the initiative would remain with the C.C., tried, 
took as its aim, to wrest the initiative from the C.C. and 
get astride the hobby-horse of democracy. As you know, 
it is a spry sort of horse and could be used in an attempt 
to outride the C.C. And so there appeared the documents 
on which Preobrazhensky spoke here at such length‹the

THIRTEENTH CONFERENCE OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 29 
document of the 463 and Trotsky¹s letter. That same 
Trotsky, who in September, a few days before his factional 
pronouncement, had been silent at the plenum, at 
any rate had not objected to the C.C. decisions, two weeks 
later suddenly discovered that the country and the Party 
were going to rack and ruin and that he, Trotsky, this patriarch 
of bureaucrats, could not live without democracy. 
It was rather amusing for us to hear Trotsky hold 
forth on the subject of democracy, the same Trotsky who 
at the Tenth Party Congress had demanded that the 
trade unions be shaken up from above. But we knew that 
no great difference separates the Trotsky of the Tenth 
Congress period from the Trotsky of today, for now, as 
then, he advocates shaking up the Leninist cadres. The 
only difference is that at the Tenth Congress he wanted 
to shake up the Leninist cadres from the top, in the sphere 
of the trade unions, whereas now he wants to shake up the 
same Leninist cadres from the bottom, in the sphere of 
the Party. He needs democracy as a hobby-horse, as a 
strategic manoeuvre. That¹s what all the clamour is 
about. 
For, if the opposition really wanted to help matters, 
to approach the issue in a business-like and comradely 
way, it should have submitted its statement first of 
all to the commissions set up by the September plenum, 
and should have said something like this: ³We consider 
your work unsatisfactory; we demand a report on its 
results to the Political Bureau, we demand a plenum 
of the C.C., to which we have new proposals of ours to present,² 
etc. And if the commissions had refused to give 
them a hearing, or if the Political Bureau had refused 
to hear their case, if it had ignored the opinion of the

J. V. S T A L I N 
FROM MARX 
TO MAO 
 
NOT FOR 
COMMERCIAL 
DISTRIBUTION 
30 
opposition, or refused to call a plenum to examine 
Trotsky¹s proposals and the opposition proposals generally, 
then‹and only then‹would the opposition have 
been fully justified in coming out openly, over the head 
of the C.C., with an appeal to the Party membership and 
in saying to the Party: ³The country is facing disaster; 
economic crisis is developing; the Party is on the road 
to ruin. We asked the C.C. commissions to go into these 
questions, but they refused to give us a hearing, we tried 
to lay the matter before the Political Bureau, but nothing 
came of that either. We are now forced to appeal 
to the Party, in order that the Party itself may 
take things in hand.² I do not doubt that the response 
of the Party would have been: ³Yes, these are practical 
revolutionaries, for they place the essence of the matter 
above the form.² 
But did the opposition act like that? Did it attempt, 
even once, to approach the C.C. commissions with its 
proposals? Did it ever think of, did it make any attempt 
at, raising and settling the issues within the C.C. or the 
organs of the C.C.? No, the opposition made no such attempt. 
Evidently, its purpose was not to improve the 
inner-Party situation, or to help the Party to improve the 
economic situation, but to anticipate the work of the 
commissions and plenum of the C.C., to wrest the initiative 
from the C.C., get astride the hobby-horse of democracy 
and, while there was still time, raise a hue and cry in 
an attempt to undermine confidence in the C.C. Clearly, 
the opposition was in a hurry to concoct ³documents² 
against the C.C., in the shape of Trotsky¹s letter and the 
statement of the 46, so that it could circulate them among 
the Sverdlov University students and to the districts

THIRTEENTH CONFERENCE OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 31 
and assert that it, the opposition, was for democracy 
and for improving the economic situation, while the 
C.C. was hindering, that assistance was needed against 
the C.C., and so on. 
Such are the facts. 
I demand that Preobrazhensky refute these statements 
of mine. I demand that he refute them, in the press 
at least. Let Preobrazhensky try to refute the fact that 
the commissions were set up in September by the C.C. 
plenum without the opposition, before the opposition 
took up the issue. Let Preobrazhensky try to refute the 
fact that neither Trotsky nor the other oppositionists 
attempted to present their proposals to the commissions. 
Let Preobrazhensky try to refute the fact that the opposition 
knew of the existence of these commissions, 
ignored their work and made no effort to settle the matter 
within the C.C. 
That is why, when Preobrazhensky and Trotsky declared 
at the October plenum that they wanted to save 
the Party through democracy, but that the C.C. was 
blind and saw nothing, the C.C. laughed at them and 
replied: No, comrades, we, the C.C., are wholeheartedly 
for democracy, but we do not believe in your democracy, 
because we feel that your ³democracy² is simply a strategic 
move against the C.C. motivated by your factionalism. 
What did the C.C. and C.C.C. plenums decide at 
the time on inner-Party democracy? This is what they 
decided: 
³The plenums fully endorse the Political Bureau¹s timely 
course of promoting inner-Party democracy and also its proposal 
to intensify the struggle against extravagance and the corrupting 
influence of the NEP on some elements in the Party.

J. V. S T A L I N 32 
³The plenums instruct the Political Bureau to do everything 
necessary to expedite the work of the commissions appointed by 
the Political Bureau and the September plenum: 1) the commission 
on the Œscissors,¹ 2) on wages, 3) on the inner-Party situation. 
³When the necessary measures on these questions have been 
worked out, the Political Bureau must immediately begin to put 
them into effect and report to the next plenum of the C.C.² 
In one of his letters to the C.C. Trotsky wrote that 
the October plenum was the ³supreme expression of the 
apparatus-bureaucratic line of policy.² Is it not clear that 
this statement of Trotsky¹s is a slander against the C.C.? 
Only a man who has completely lost his head and is 
blinded by factionalism can, after the adoption of the 
document I have just read, maintain that the October 
plenum was the supreme expression of bureaucracy. 
And what did the C.C. and C.C.C. plenums decide 
at the time on the ³democratic² manoeuvres of Trotsky 
and the 46? This is what they decided: 
³The plenums of the C.C. and C.C.C., attended also by representatives 
of ten Party organisations, regard Trotsky¹s pronouncement, 
made at the present highly important moment for the 
world revolution and the Party, as a grave political error, especially 
because his attack on the Political Bureau has, objectively, 
assumed the character of a factional move which threatens to 
strike a blow at Party unity and creates a crisis in the Party. The 
plenums note with regret that, in order to raise the questions 
touched on by him, Trotsky chose the method of appealing to 
individual Party members, instead of the only permissible method, 
‹that of first submitting these questions for discussion by the 
bodies of which Trotsky is a member. 
³The method chosen by Trotsky served as the signal for the 
appearance of a factional group (statement of the 46). 
³The plenums of the C.C. and C.C.C., and representatives 
of ten Party organisations, resolutely condemn the statement of 
the 46 as a factional and schismatic step; for that is its nature,

THIRTEENTH CONFERENCE OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 33 
whatever the intentions of those who signed it. That statement 
threatens to subject the entire Party in the coming months to an 
inner-Party struggle and thereby weaken the Party at a supremely 
important moment for the destinies of the world revolution.² 
As you see, comrades, these facts completely refute 
the picture of the situation presented here by Preobrazhensky. 
Act III, or the third stage, in the history of the 
issue was the period following the October plenum. The 
October plenum had voted to instruct the Political Bureau 
that it take every measure to ensure harmony in its 
work. I must state here, comrades, that in the period 
following the October plenum we took every measure to 
work in harmony with Trotsky, although I must say that 
this proved anything but an easy task. We had two private 
conferences with Trotsky, went into all questions of 
economic and Party matters and arrived at certain views 
on which there were no disagreements. As I reported yesterday, 
a sub-commission of three was set up as a continuation 
of these private conferences and of these efforts 
to ensure harmony in the work of the Political Bureau. 
This sub-commission drew up the draft resolution which 
subsequently became the C.C. and C.C.C. resolution on 
democracy. 
That is how things stood. 
It seemed to us that after the unanimous adoption of 
the resolution there were no further grounds for controversy, 
no grounds for an inner-Party struggle. And, indeed, 
this was so until Trotsky¹s new pronouncement, 
his appeal to the districts. But Trotsky¹s pronouncement 
on the day after the publication of the C.C. resolution, 
undertaken independently of the C.C. and over its head,

J. V. S T A L I N 34 
upset everything, radically changed the situation, and 
hurled the Party back into a fresh controversy and a 
fresh struggle, more acute than before. It is said that the 
C.C. should have forbidden the publication of Trotsky¹s 
article. That is wrong, comrades. It would have been a 
highly dangerous step for the C.C. to take. Try and prohibit 
an article of Trotsky¹s, already made public in the 
Moscow districts! The Central Committee could not take 
so rash a step. 
That is the history of the issue. 
It follows from what has been said that the opposition 
has been concerned not so much with democracy as 
with using the idea of democracy to undermine the C.C.; 
that in the case of the opposition we are dealing not with 
people who want to help the Party, but with a faction 
which has been stealthily watching the C.C. in the hope 
that ³it may slip up, or overlook something, and then 
we¹ll pounce on it.² For it is a faction when one group 
of Party members tries to trap the central agencies of the 
Party in order to exploit a crop failure, a depreciation of 
the chervonets or any other difficulty confronting the 
Party, and then to attack the Party unexpectedly, from 
ambush, and to hit it on the head. Yes, the C.C. was 
right when in October it said to you, comrades of the 
opposition, that democracy is one thing and intriguing 
against the Party quite another; that democracy is one 
thing and exploiting clamour about democracy against 
the Party majority quite another. 
That, Preobrazhensky, is the history of the issue, 
about which I did not want to speak here, but which, 
nevertheless, I have been obliged to recount in deference 
to your persistent desire.

THIRTEENTH CONFERENCE OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 35 
The opposition has made it a rule to extol Comrade 
Lenin as the greatest of geniuses. I am afraid that this 
praise is insincere and that behind it, too, is a crafty 
stratagem: the clamour about Comrade Lenin¹s genius 
is meant to cover up their departure from Lenin, and at 
the same time to emphasise the weakness of his disciples. 
Certainly, it is not for us, Comrade Lenin¹s disciples, 
to fail to appreciate that Comrade Lenin is the greatest 
of geniuses, and that men of his calibre are born once in 
many centuries. But permit me to ask you, Preobrazhensky, 
why did you differ with this greatest of geniuses on 
the issue of the Brest Peace? Why did you abandon and 
refuse to heed this greatest of geniuses at a difficult 
moment? Where, in which camp, were you then? 
And Sapronov, who now insincerely and hypocritically 
lauds Comrade Lenin, that same Sapronov who had 
the impudence, at one congress, to call Comrade Lenin 
an ³ignoramus² and ³oligarch²! Why did he not support 
the genius Lenin, say at the Tenth Congress, and why, 
if he really thinks that Comrade Lenin is the greatest of 
geniuses, has he invariably appeared in the opposite 
camp at difficult moments? Does Sapronov know that 
Comrade Lenin, in submitting to the Tenth Congress 
the unity resolution, which calls for the expulsion of 
factionalists from the Party, had in mind Sapronov among 
others? 
Or again: why was Preobrazhensky found to be in 
the camp of the opponents of the great genius Lenin, 
not only at the time of the Brest Peace, but subsequently 
too, in the period of the trade-union discussion? Is all 
this accidental? Is there not a definite logic in it? (Preobrazhensky: 
³I tried to use my own brains.²)

J. V. S T A L I N 36 
It is very praiseworthy, Preobrazhensky, that you 
should have wanted to use your own brains. But just 
look at the result: on the Brest issue you used your own 
brains, and came a cropper; then in the trade-union discussion 
you again tried to use your own brains, and again 
you came a cropper; and now, I do not know whether 
you are using your own brains or borrowing someone 
else¹s, but it appears that you have come a cropper this 
time too. (Laughter. ) Nevertheless, I think that i f 
Preobrazhensky were now to use his own brains more, 
rather than Trotsky¹s‹which resulted in the letter of 
October 8‹he would be closer to us than to Trotsky. 
Preobrazhensky has reproached the C.C., asserting that 
as long as Ilyich stood at our head questions were solved 
in good time, not belatedly, for Ilyich was able to discern 
new events in the embryo, and give slogans that 
anticipated events; whereas now, he claims, with Ilyich 
absent, the Central Committee has begun to lag behind 
events. What does Preobrazhensky wish to imply? That 
Ilyich is superior to his disciples? But does anyone doubt 
that? Does anyone doubt that, compared with his disciples, 
Ilyich stands out as a veritable Goliath? If we are 
to speak of the Party¹s leader, not a press-publicised 
leader receiving a heap of congratulatory messages, but 
its real leader, then there is only one‹Comrade Lenin. 
That is precisely why it has been stressed time and again 
that in the present circumstances, with Comrade Lenin 
temporarily absent, we must keep to the line of collective 
leadership. As for Comrade Lenin¹s disciples, we might 
point, for example, to the events connected with the 
Curzon ultimatum,4 which were a regular test, an examination, 
for them. The fact that we emerged from our diffi

THIRTEENTH CONFERENCE OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 37 
culties then without detriment to our cause undoubtedly 
shows that Comrade Lenin¹s disciples had already 
learned a thing or two from their teacher. 
Preobrazhensky is wrong in asserting that our Party 
did not lag behind events in previous years. He is wrong 
because this assertion is untrue factually and incorrect 
theoretically. Several examples can be cited. Take, for 
instance, the Brest Peace. Were we not late in concluding 
it? And did it not require such facts as the German offensive 
and the wholesale flight of our soldiers to make 
us realise, at last, that we had to have peace? The disintegration 
of the front, Hoffmann¹s offensive,5 his approach 
to Petrograd, the pressure exerted on us by the peasants‹
did it not take all these developments to make us 
realise that the tempo of the world revolution was not 
as rapid as we would have liked, that our army was not 
as strong as we had thought, that the peasantry was not 
as patient as some of us had thought, and that it wanted 
peace, and would achieve it by force? 
Or take the repeal of the surplus-appropriation system. 
Were we not late in repealing the surplus-appropriation 
system? Did it not require such developments as Kronstadt 
and Tambov6 to make us understand that it was no longer 
possible to retain the conditions of War Communism? 
Did not Ilyich himself admit that on this front we had 
sustained a more serious defeat than any we had suffered 
at the Denikin or Kolchak fronts? 
Was i t accidental that in all these instances the 
Party lagged behind events and acted somewhat belatedly? 
No, it was not accidental. There was a natural law at work 
here. Evidently, in so far as it is a matter not of general 
theoretical predictions, but of direct practical leadership,

J. V. S T A L I N 38 
the ruling party, standing at the helm and involved in 
the events of the day, cannot immediately perceive and 
grasp processes taking place below the surface of life. 
I t requires some impulse from outside and a definite 
degree of development of the new processes for the 
Party to perceive them and orientate its work accordingly. 
For that very reason our Party lagged somewhat 
behind events in the past, and will lag behind them in 
future too. But the point here does not at all concern 
lagging behind, but understanding the significance of 
events, the significance of new processes, and then skilfully 
directing them in accordance with the general 
trend of development. That is how the matter stands 
if we approach things as Marxists and not as factionalists 
who go about searching everywhere for culprits. 
Preobrazhensky is indignant that representatives of 
the C.C. speak of Trotsky¹s deviations from Leninism. 
He is indignant, but has presented no arguments to the 
contrary and has made no attempt at all to substantiate 
his indignation, forgetting that indignation is no argument. 
Yes, it is true that Trotsky deviates from Leninism 
on questions of organisation. That has been, and still is, 
our contention. The articles in Pravda entitled ³Down 
With Factionalism,² written by Bukharin, are entirely 
devoted to Trotsky¹s deviations from Leninism. Why 
has not Preobrazhensky challenged the basic ideas of 
these articles? Why has he not tried to support his indignation 
by arguments, or a semblance of arguments? I said 
yesterday, and I must repeat it today, that such actions 
of Trotsky¹s as setting himself up in opposition to the 
Central Committee; ignoring the will of a number of 
organisations that are demanding a clear answer from

THIRTEENTH CONFERENCE OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 39 
him; contrasting the Party to the Party apparatus, and 
the young Party members to the Party cadres; his attempt 
to orientate the Party on the student youth, and 
his proclamation of freedom of groups‹I say that these 
actions are incompatible with the organisational principles 
of Leninism. Why then has Preobrazhensky not 
tried to refute this statement of mine? 
It is said that Trotsky is being baited. Preobrazhensky 
and Radek have spoken of this. Comrades, I must 
say that the statements of these comrades about baiting 
are altogether at variance with the facts. Let me recall 
two facts so that you may be able to judge for yourselves. 
First, the incident which occurred at the September 
plenum of the C.C. when, in reply to the remark by C.C. 
member Komarov that C.C. members cannot refuse to 
carry out C.C. decisions, Trotsky jumped up and left the 
meeting. You will recall that the C.C. plenum sent a ³delegation² 
to Trotsky with the request that he return to the 
meeting. You will recall that Trotsky refused to comply 
with this request of the plenum, thereby demonstrating 
that he had not the slightest respect for his Central 
Committee. 
There is also the other fact, that Trotsky definitely 
refuses to work in the central Soviet bodies, in the Council 
of Labour and Defence and the Council of People¹s 
Commissars, despite the twice-adopted C.C. decision 
that he at last take up his duties in the Soviet bodies. 
You know that Trotsky has not as much as moved a finger 
to carry out this C.C. decision. But, indeed, why 
should not Trotsky work in the Council of Labour and 
Defence, or in the Council of People¹s Commissars? Why 
should not Trotsky‹who is so fond of talking about

J. V. S T A L I N 40 
planning‹why should he not have a look into our State 
Planning Commission? Is it right and proper for a C.C. 
member to ignore a decision of the C.C.? Do not all these 
facts show that the talk about baiting is no more than 
idle gossip, and that if anyone is to be blamed, it is 
Trotsky himself, for his behaviour can only be regarded 
as mocking at the C.C.? 
Preobrazhensky¹s arguments about democracy are 
entirely wrong. This is how he puts the question: either 
we have groups, and in that case there is democracy, 
or you prohibit groups, and in that case there is no democracy. 
In his conception, freedom of groups and democracy 
are inseparably bound up. That is not how we understand 
democracy. We understand democracy to 
mean raising the activity and political understanding 
of the mass of Party members; we understand it to mean 
the systematic enlistment of the Party membership not 
only in the discussion of questions, but also in the leadership 
of the work. Freedom of groups, that is, freedom 
of factions‹they are one and the same thing‹represents 
an evil which threatens to splinter the Party and turn it 
into a discussion club. You have exposed yourself, Preobrazhensky, 
by defending freedom of factions. The mass 
of Party members understand democracy to mean creating 
conditions that will ensure active participation of the 
Party members in the leadership of our country, whereas 
a couple of oppositionist intellectuals understand 
it to mean that the opposition must be given freedom 
to form a faction. You stand exposed, Preobrazhensky. 
And why are you so frightened by point seven, on 
Party unity? What is there to be frightened about? 
Point seven reads: ³In order to ensure strict discipline

THIRTEENTH CONFERENCE OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 41 
within the Party and in all Soviet work and to secure 
the maximum unanimity, doing away with all factionalism. 
. . .² But are you against ³strict discipline within 
the Party and in Soviet work²? Comrades of the opposition, 
are you against all this? Well, I did not know, comrades, 
that you were opposed to this. Are you, Sapronov 
and Preobrazhensky, opposed to securing maximum unanimity 
and ³doing away with factionalism²? Tell us frankly, 
and perhaps we shall introduce an amendment or 
two. (Laughter.) 
Further: ³The congress authorises the Central Committee, 
in case of breach of Party discipline or of a revival 
of factionalism, to apply Party penalties. . . .² Are 
you afraid of this too? Can it be that you, Preobrazhensky, 
Radek, Sapronov, are thinking of violating Party discipline, 
of reviving factionalism? Well, if that is not your 
intention, then what are you afraid of? Your panic 
shows you up, comrades. Evidently, if you are afraid 
of point seven of the unity resolution, you must be for 
factionalism, for violating discipline, and against unity. 
Otherwise, why all the panic? If your conscience is clear, 
if you are for unity and against factionalism and violation 
of discipline, then is it not clear that the punishing 
hand of the Party will not touch you? What is there to 
fear then? (Voice: ³But why do you include the point, 
if there is nothing to fear?²) 
To remind you. (Laughter, applause. Preobrazhensky: 
³You are intimidating the Party.²) 
We are intimidating the factionalists, not the Party. 
Do you really think, Preobrazhensky, that the Party 
and the factionalists are identical? Apparently it is a 
case of the cap fitting. (Laughter.)

J. V. S T A L I N 42 
Further: ³And, in regard to members of the Central 
Committee, to reduce them to the status of candidate 
members and even, as an extreme measure, to expel 
them from the Party. A condition for the application 
of such an extreme measure to members and candidate 
members of the C.C. and members of the Central Control 
Commission must be the convocation of a plenum of 
the Central Committee.² 
What is there terrible in that? If you are not factionalists, 
if you are against freedom of groups, and if you 
are for unity, then you, comrades of the opposition, 
should vote for point seven of the Tenth Congress resolution, 
for it is directed solely against factionalists, 
solely against those who violate the Party¹s unity, its 
strength and discipline. Is that not clear? 
I now pass to Radek. There are people who can master 
and manage their tongues; these are ordinary people. 
There are also people who are slaves of their tongues; 
their tongues manage them. These are peculiar people. 
And it is to this category of peculiar people that Radek 
belongs. A man who has a tongue he cannot manage and 
who is the slave of his own tongue, can never know what 
and when his tongue i s liable to blurt out. I f you 
had been able to hear Radek¹s speeches at various meetings, 
you would have been astonished by what he said 
today. At one discussion meeting Radek asserted that 
the question of inner-Party democracy was a trivial one, 
that actually he, Radek, was against democracy, that, 
at bottom the issue now was not one of democracy, but 
of what the C.C. intended to do with Trotsky. At another 
discussion meeting this same Radek declared that democracy 
within the Party was not a serious matter, but

THIRTEENTH CONFERENCE OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 43 
that democracy within the C.C. was a matter of the utmost 
importance, for in his opinion a Directory had 
been set up inside the C.C. And today this same Radek 
tells us in all innocence that inner-Party democracy is 
as indispensable as air and water, for without democracy, 
it appears, leadership of the Party is impossible. Which 
of these three Radeks are we to believe‹the first, second 
or third? And what guarantee is there that Radek, or 
rather his tongue, will not in the immediate future make 
new unexpected statements that refute all his previous 
ones? Can one rely on a man like Radek? Can one, after 
all this, attach any value to Radek¹s statement, for 
instance, about Boguslavsky and Antonov being removed 
from certain posts out of ³factional considerations²? 
I have already spoken, comrades, about Boguslavsky. 
. . . As for Antonov-Ovseyenko, permit me to 
report the following. Antonov was removed from the 
Political Department of the Red Army by decision of 
the Organising Bureau of the Central Committee, a decision 
confirmed by a plenum of the Central Committee. 
He was removed, first of all, for having issued a circular 
about a conference of Party units in military colleges 
and the air fleet, with the international situation, 
Party affairs, etc., as items on the agenda, without the 
knowledge and agreement of the C.C., although Antonov 
knew that the status of the Political Department of the 
Red Army is that of a department of the C.C. He was 
removed from the Political Department, in addition, 
for having sent to all Party units of the army a circular 
concerning the forms in which inner-Party democracy 
was to be applied, doing so against the will of the C.C.

J. V. S T A L I N 44 
and in spite of its warning that the circular must be coordinated 
with the plans of the C.C. He was removed, 
lastly, for having sent to the C.C. and C.C.C. a letter, 
altogether indecent in tone and absolutely impermissible 
in content, threatening the C.C. and C.C.C. that 
the ³overweening leaders² would be called to account. 
Comrades, oppositionists can and should be allowed 
to hold posts. Heads of C.C. departments can and should 
be allowed to criticise the Central Committee¹s activities. 
But we cannot allow the head of the Political 
Department of the Red Army, which has the status of 
a department of the C.C., systematically to refuse to 
establish working contact with his Central Committee. 
We cannot allow a responsible official to trample underfoot 
the elementary rules of decency. Such a comrade 
cannot be entrusted with the education of the Red Army. 
That is how matters stand with Antonov. 
Finally, I must say a few words on the subject of 
whose are the sentiments that are expressed in the pronouncements 
of the comrades of the opposition. I must 
return to the ³incident² of Comrades Kazaryan and Martynov, 
students at the People¹s Commissariat of Transport 
college. This ³incident² is evidence that all is not well 
among a certain section of our students, that what they 
had of the Party spirit in them has already become rotten, 
that intrinsically they have already broken with the Party 
and precisely for that reason willingly vote for the opposition. 
You will forgive me, comrades, but such people, 
rotten through and through from the Party standpoint, 
are not to be found, and could not possibly be found, 
among those who voted for the C.C. resolution. There 
are no such people on our side, comrades. There are

THIRTEENTH CONFERENCE OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 45 
none in our ranks who would ask: ³What have we got, 
a dictatorship of the proletariat or a dictatorship of 
the Communist Party over the proletariat?² That is a 
phrase of Martov and Dan; it is a phrase of the Socialist- 
Revolutionary Dni,7 and if among you, in your ranks, 
there are those who take this line, then what is your 
position worth, comrades of the opposition? Or there is, 
for instance, the other comrade, Comrade Martynov, 
who thinks that the C.C. should keep quiet while the 
Party units decide. He says in effect: You, the C.C., can 
carry out what we, the units, decide. But we have 50,000 
Party units, and if they are going to decide, say, the 
question of the Curzon ultimatum, then we shall not 
arrive at a decision in two years. That is indeed anarcho- 
Menshevism of the first water. These people have lost 
their heads; from the Party standpoint they are rotten 
through and through, and if you have them in your 
faction, then I ask you, what is this faction of yours 
worth? (Voice: ³Are they Party members?²) 
Yes, unfortunately they are, but I am prepared to 
take every measure to ensure that such people cease to be 
members of our Party. (Applause.) I have said that the 
opposition voices the sentiments and aspirations of the 
non-proletarian elements in the Party and outside it. 
Without being conscious of it, the opposition is unleashing 
petty-bourgeois elemental forces. Its factional activities 
bring grist to the mill of the enemies of our Party, 
to the mill of those who want to weaken, to overthrow 
the dictatorship of the proletariat. I said this yesterday 
and I re-affirm it today. 
But perhaps you would like to hear other, fresh witnesses? 
I can give you that pleasure. Let me cite, for

J. V. S T A L I N 46 
instance, the evidence of S. Ivanovich, a name you have 
all heard. Who is this S. Ivanovich? He is a Menshevik, 
a former Party member, of the days when we and the 
Mensheviks comprised a single party. Later on he disagreed 
with the Menshevik C.C. and became a Rightwing 
Menshevik. The Right-wing Mensheviks are a group 
of Menshevik interventionists, and their immediate object 
is to overthrow Soviet power, even if with the aid 
of foreign bayonets. Their organ is Zarya8 and its editor 
is S. Ivanovich. How does he regard our opposition, 
this Right-wing Menshevik? What sort of testimonial 
has he given it? Listen to this: 
³Let us be thankful to the opposition for having so luridly 
depicted that horrifying moral cesspool that goes by the name 
of the R.C.P. Let us be thankful to i t for having dealt a serious 
blow, morally and organisationally, to the R.C.P. Let us 
be thankful to it for its activities, because they help all those 
who regard the overthrow of Soviet power as the task of the 
Socialist parties.² 
There you have your testimonial, comrades of the 
opposition! 
In conclusion, I would like nevertheless to wish the 
comrades of the opposition that this kiss of S. Ivanovich 
will not stick to them too closely. (Prolonged applause.)

ON THE DEATH OF LENIN 
A Speech Delivered at 
the Second All-Union Congress of Soviets 9 
January 26, 1924 
Comrades, we Communists are people of a special 
mould. We are made of a special stuff. We are those who 
form the army of the great proletarian strategist, the 
army of Comrade Lenin. There is nothing higher than 
the honour of belonging to this army. There is nothing 
higher than the title of member of the Party whose founder 
and leader was Comrade Lenin. It is not given to 
everyone to be a member of such a party. It is not given 
to everyone to withstand the stresses and storms that 
accompany membership in such a party. It is the sons 
of the working class, the sons of want and struggle, the 
sons of incredible privation and heroic effort who before 
all should be members of such a party. That is why the 
Party of the Leninists, the Party of the Communists, 
is also called the Party of the working class. 
DEPARTING FROM US, COMRADE LENIN ENJOINED US 
TO HOLD HIGH AND GUARD THE PURITY OF THE GREAT 
TITLE OF MEMBER OF THE PARTY. WE VOW TO YOU, 
COMRADE LENIN, THAT WE SHALL FULFIL YOUR BEHEST 
WITH HONOUR! 
For twenty-five years Comrade Lenin tended our 
Party and made it into the strongest and most highly

J. V. S T A L I N 48 
steeled workers¹ party in the world. The blows of 
tsarism and its henchmen, the fury of the bourgeoisie 
and the landlords, the armed attacks of Kolchak and 
Denikin, the armed intervention of Britain and France, 
the lies and slanders of the hundred-mouthed bourgeois 
press‹all these scorpions constantly chastised our 
Party for a quarter of a century. But our Party stood 
firm as a rock, repelling the countless blows of its enemies 
and leading the working class forward, to victory. 
In fierce battles our Party forged the unity and solidarity 
of i t s ranks. And by unity and solidarity i t 
achieved victory over the enemies of the working class. 
DEPARTING FROM US, COMRADE LENIN ENJOINED US 
TO GUARD THE UNITY OF OUR PARTY AS THE APPLE 
OF OUR EYE. WE VOW TO YOU, COMRADE LENIN, THAT 
THIS BEHEST, TOO, WE SHALL FULFIL WITH HONOUR! 
Burdensome and intolerable has been the lot of the 
working class. Painful and grievous have been the sufferings 
of the labouring people. Slaves and slaveholders, 
serfs and serf-owners, peasants and landlords, workers 
and capitalists, oppressed and oppressors‹so the world 
has been built from time immemorial, and so it remains 
to this day in the vast majority of countries. 
Scores and indeed hundreds of times in the course of 
the centuries the labouring people have striven to throw 
off the oppressors from their backs and to become the 
masters of their own destiny. But each time, defeated 
and disgraced, they have been forced to retreat, harbouring 
in their breasts resentment and humiliation, 
anger and despair, and lifting up their eyes to an 
inscrutable heaven where they hoped to find deliverance. 
The chains of slavery remained intact, or the old chains

ON THE DEATH OF LENIN 49 
were replaced by new ones, equally burdensome and 
degrading. Ours is the only country where the oppressed 
and downtrodden labouring masses have succeeded in 
throwing off the rule of the landlords and capitalists 
and replacing it by the rule of the workers and peasants. 
You know, comrades, and the whole world now admits 
it, that this gigantic struggle was led by Comrade Lenin 
and his Party. The greatness of Lenin lies above all in 
this, that by creating the Republic of Soviets he gave 
a practical demonstration to the oppressed masses of 
the whole world that hope of deliverance is not lost, 
that the rule of the landlords and capitalists is shortlived, 
that the kingdom of labour can be created by the 
efforts of the labouring people themselves, and that the 
kingdom of labour must be created not in heaven, but 
on earth. He thus fired the hearts of the workers and 
peasants of the whole world with the hope of liberation. 
That explains why Lenin¹s name has become the name 
most beloved of the labouring and exploited masses. 
DEPARTING FROM US, COMRADE LENIN ENJOINED US TO 
GUARD AND STRENGTHEN THE DICTATORSHIP OF 
THE PROLETARIAT. WE VOW TO YOU, COMRADE LENIN, 
THAT WE SHALL SPARE NO EFFORT TO FULFIL THIS 
BEHEST, TOO, WITH HONOUR! 
The dictatorship of the proletariat was established 
in our country on the basis of an alliance between the 
workers and peasants. This is the first and fundamental 
basis of the Republic of Soviets. The workers and peasants 
could not have vanquished the capitalists and 
landlords without such an alliance. The workers could 
not have defeated the capitalists without the support 
of the peasants. The peasants could not have defeated

J. V. S T A L I N 50 
the landlords without the leadership of the workers. 
This is borne out by the whole history of the civil war 
in our country. But the struggle to consolidate the Republic 
of Soviets is by no means at an end‹it has only 
taken on a new form. Before, the alliance of the workers 
and peasants took the form of a military alliance, because 
it was directed against Kolchak and Denikin. 
Now, the alliance of the workers and peasants must 
assume the form of economic co-operation between town 
and country, between workers and peasants, because 
it is directed against the merchant and the kulak, and 
its aim is the mutual supply by peasants and workers of 
all they require. You know that nobody worked for 
this more persistently than Comrade Lenin. 
DEPARTING FROM US, COMRADE LENIN ENJOINED US 
TO STRENGTHEN WITH ALL OUR MIGHT THE ALLIANCE 
OF THE WORKERS AND PEASANTS. WE VOW 
TO YOU, COMRADE, LENIN, THAT THIS BEHEST, TOO, 
WE SHALL FULFIL WITH HONOUR! 
The second basis of the Republic of Soviets is the 
union of the working people of the different nationalities 
of our country. Russians and Ukrainians, Bashkirs 
and Byelorussians, Georgians and Azerbaijanians, 
Armenians and Daghestanians, Tatars and Kirghiz, 
Uzbeks and Turkmenians are all equally interested in 
strengthening the dictatorship of the proletariat. Not 
only does the dictatorship of the proletariat deliver these 
peoples from fetters and oppression, but these peoples 
on their part deliver our Republic of Soviets from the intrigues 
and assaults of the enemies of the working class 
by their supreme devotion to the Republic of Soviets 
and their readiness to make sacrifices for it. That is

ON THE DEATH OF LENIN 51 
why Comrade Lenin untiringly urged upon us the necessity 
of the voluntary union of the peoples of our 
country, the necessity of their fraternal co-operation 
within the framework of the Union of Republics. 
DEPARTING FROM US, COMRADE LENIN ENJOINED 
US TO STRENGTHEN AND EXTEND THE UNION OF REPUBLICS. 
WE VOW TO YOU, COMRADE LENIN, THAT 
THIS BEHEST, TOO, WE SHALL FULFIL WITH HONOUR! 
The third basis of the dictatorship of the proletariat 
is our Red Army and our Red Navy. More than once did 
Lenin impress upon us that the respite we had won from 
the capitalist states might prove a short one. More than 
once did Lenin point out to us that the strengthening of 
the Red Army and the improvement of its condition 
is one of the most important tasks of our Party. The 
events connected with Curzon¹s ultimatum and the crisis 
in Germany10 once more confirmed that, as always, 
Lenin was right. Let us vow then, comrades, that we 
shall spare no effort to strengthen our Red Army and 
our Red Navy. 
Like a huge rock, our country stands out amid an 
ocean of bourgeois states. Wave after wave dashes 
against it, threatening to submerge it and wash it away. 
But the rock stands unshakable. Wherein lies its strength? 
Not only in the fact that our country rests on an alliance 
of the workers and peasants, that it embodies a union 
of free nationalities, that it is protected by the mighty 
arm of the Red Army and the Red Navy. The strength, 
the firmness, the solidity of our country is due to the 
profound sympathy and unfailing support it finds in 
the hearts of the workers and peasants of the whole world.

J. V. S T A L I N 52 
The workers and peasants of the whole world want to 
preserve the Republic of Soviets as an arrow shot by the 
sure hand of Comrade Lenin into the camp of the enemy, 
as the pillar of their hopes of deliverance from oppression 
and exploitation, as a reliable beacon pointing the 
path to their emancipation. They want to preserve it, 
and they will not allow the landlords and capitalists 
to destroy it. Therein lies our strength. Therein lies the 
strength of the working people of all countries. And therein 
lies the weakness of the bourgeoisie all over the world. 
Lenin never regarded the Republic of Soviets as an 
end in itself. He always looked on it as an essential link 
for strengthening the revolutionary movement in the 
countries of the West and the East, an essential link 
for facilitating the victory of the working people of the 
whole world over capitalism. Lenin knew that this was the 
only right conception, both from the international standpoint 
and from the standpoint of preserving the Republic 
of Soviets itself. Lenin knew that this alone could fire 
the hearts of the working people of the whole world with 
determination to fight the decisive battles for their emancipation. 
That is why, on the very morrow of the establishment 
of the dictatorship of the proletariat, he, the greatest 
of the geniuses who have led the proletariat, laid 
the foundation of the workers¹ International. That is 
why he never tired of extending and strengthening the 
union of the working people of the whole world‹the 
Communist International. 
You have seen during the past few days the pilgrimage 
of scores and hundreds of thousands of working 
people to Comrade Lenin¹s bier. Before long you will 
see the pilgrimage of representatives of millions of work

ON THE DEATH OF LENIN 53 
ing people to Comrade Lenin¹s tomb. You need not 
doubt that the representatives of millions will be followed 
by representatives of scores and hundreds of millions 
from all parts of the earth, who will come to testify that 
Lenin was the leader not only of the Russian proletariat, 
not only of the European workers, not only of the colonial 
East, but of all the working people of the globe. 
DEPARTING FROM US, COMRADE LENIN ENJOINED US 
TO REMAIN FAITHFUL TO THE PRINCIPLES OF THE 
COMMUNIST INTERNATIONAL. WE VOW TO YOU, COMRADE 
LENIN, THAT WE SHALL NOT SPARE OUR LIVES TO 
STRENGTHEN AND EXTEND THE UNION OF THE WORKING 
PEOPLE OF THE WHOLE WORLD‹THE COMMUNIST 
INTERNATIONAL! 
Pravda, No. 23, 
January 30, 1924

LENIN 
A Speech Delivered at a Memorial Meeting 
of the Kremlin Military School 
January 28, 1924 
Comrades, I am told that you have arranged a Lenin 
memorial meeting here this evening and that I have 
been invited as one of the speakers. I do not think there 
is any need for me to deliver a set speech on Lenin¹s 
activities. It would be better, I think, to confine myself 
to a few facts to bring out certain of Lenin¹s characteristics 
as a man and a leader. There may, perhaps, be 
no inherent connection between these facts, but that is 
not of vital importance as far as gaining a general idea 
of Lenin is concerned. At any rate, I am unable on this 
occasion to do more than what I have just promised. 
THE MOUNTAIN EAGLE 
I first became acquainted with Lenin in 1903. True, 
it was not a personal acquaintance, but was by correspondence. 
But it made an indelible impression upon 
me, one which has never left me throughout all my work 
in the Party. I was in exile in Siberia at the time. My 
knowledge of Lenin¹s revolutionary activities since the 
end of the nineties, and especially after 1901, after the 
appearance of Iskra,11 had convinced me that in Lenin 
we had a man of extraordinary calibre. At that time

LENIN 55 
I did not regard him merely as a leader of the Party, but 
as its actual founder, for he alone understood the inner 
essence and urgent needs of our Party. When I compared 
him with the other leaders of our Party, it always seemed 
to me that he was head and shoulders above his colleagues‹
Plekhanov, Martov, Axelrod and the others; 
that, compared with them, Lenin was not just one of 
the leaders, but a leader of the highest rank, a mountain 
eagle, who knew no fear in the struggle, and who boldly 
led the Party forward along the unexplored paths of the 
Russian revolutionary movement. This impression took 
such a deep hold of me that I felt impelled to write about 
it to `a close friend of mine who was living as a political 
exile abroad, requesting him to give me his opinion. 
Some time later, when I was already in exile in Siberia‹
this was at the end of 1903‹I received an enthusiastic 
reply from my friend and a simple, but profoundly 
expressive letter from Lenin, to whom, it turned out, 
my friend had shown my letter. Lenin¹s note was comparatively 
short, but it contained a bold and fearless 
criticism of the practical work of our Party, and a remarkably 
clear and concise account of the entire plan 
of work of the Party in the immediate future. Only 
Lenin could write of the most intricate things so simply 
and clearly, so concisely and boldly, that every sentence 
did not so much speak as ring out like a rifle shot. This 
simple and bold letter still further strengthened me in 
my opinion that Lenin was the mountain eagle of our 
Party. I cannot forgive myself for having, from the habit 
of an old underground worker, consigned this letter of 
Lenin¹s, like many other letters, to the flames. 
My acquaintance with Lenin dates from that time.

J. V. S T A L I N 56 
MODESTY 
I first met Lenin in December 1905 at the Bolshevik 
conference in Tammerfors (Finland). I was hoping to 
see the mountain eagle of our Party, the great man, 
great not only politically, but, if you will, physically, 
because in my imagination I had pictured Lenin as a 
giant, stately and imposing. What, then, was my disappointment 
to see a most ordinary-looking man, below 
average height, in no way, literally in no way, distinguishable 
from ordinary mortals. . . . 
It is accepted as the usual thing for a ³great man² 
to come late to meetings so that the assembly may await 
his appearance with bated breath; and then, just before 
the ³great man² enters, the warning whisper goes up: 
³Hush! . . . Silence! . . . He¹s coming.² This ritual 
did not seem to me superfluous, because it creates an 
impression, inspires respect. What, then, was my disappointment 
to learn that Lenin had arrived at the conference 
before the delegates, had settled himself somewhere 
in a corner, and was unassumingly carrying on 
a conversation, a most ordinary conversation with the 
most ordinary delegates at the conference. I will not 
conceal from you that at that time this seemed to me 
to be something of a violation of certain essential rules. 
Only later did I realise that this simplicity and modesty, 
this striving to remain unobserved, or, at least, 
not to make himself conspicuous and not to emphasise 
his high position, this feature was one of Lenin¹s strongest 
points as the new leader of the new masses, of the 
simple and ordinary masses of the ³rank and file² 
of humanity.

LENIN 57 
FORCE OF LOGIC 
The two speeches Lenin delivered at this conference 
were remarkable: one was on the current situation and 
the other on the agrarian question. Unfortunately, they 
have not been preserved. They were inspired, and they 
roused the whole conference to a pitch of stormy enthusiasm. 
The extraordinary power of conviction, the simplicity 
and clarity of argument, the brief and easily 
understood sentences, the absence of affectation, of dizzying 
gestures and theatrical phrases aiming at effect 
‹all this made Lenin¹s speeches a favourable contrast to 
the speeches of the usual ³parliamentary² orators. 
But what captivated me at the time was not this 
aspect of Lenin¹s speeches. I was captivated by that 
irresistible force of logic in them which, although somewhat 
terse, gained a firm hold on his audience, gradually 
electrified it, and then, as one might say, completely 
overpowered it. I remember that many of the delegates 
said: ³The logic of Lenin¹s speeches is like a mighty 
tentacle which twines all round you and holds you as in 
a vice and from whose grip you are powerless to tear 
yourself away: you must either surrender or resign yourself 
to utter defeat.² 
I think that this characteristic of Lenin¹s speeches 
was the strongest feature of his art as an orator. 
NO WHINING 
The second time I met Lenin was in 1906 at the Stockholm 
Congress12 of our Party. You know that the Bolsheviks 
were in the minority at this congress and suffered 
defeat. This was the first time I saw Lenin in the role of

J. V. S T A L I N 58 
the vanquished. But he was not in the least like those leaders 
who whine and lose heart after a defeat. On the contrary, 
defeat transformed Lenin into a spring of compressed 
energy which inspired his supporters for new battles 
and for future victory. I said that Lenin was defeated. 
But what sort of defeat was it? You had only to look 
at his opponents, the victors at the Stockholm Congress‹ 
Plekhanov, Axelrod, Martov and the rest. They had 
little of the appearance of real victors, for Lenin¹s 
merciless criticism of Menshevism had not left one whole 
bone in their body, so to speak. I remember that we, 
the Bolshevik delegates, huddled together in a group, gazing 
at Lenin and asking his advice. The speeches of some 
of the delegates betrayed a note of weariness and dejection. 
I recall that to these speeches Lenin bitingly 
replied through clenched teeth: ³Don¹t whine, comrades, 
we are bound to win, for we are right.² Hatred of 
the whining intellectual, faith in our own strength, confidence 
in victory‹that is what Lenin impressed upon 
us. It was felt that the Bolsheviks¹ defeat was temporary, 
that they were bound to win in the very near future. 
³No whining over defeat²‹this was the feature of 
Lenin¹s activities that helped him to rally around himself 
an army faithful to the end and confident in its 
strength. 
NO BOASTING 
At the next congress, held in 1907 in London,13 the 
Bolsheviks proved victorious. This was the first time 
I saw Lenin in the role of victor. Victory turns the heads 
of some leaders and makes them haughty and boast

LENIN 59 
ful. They begin in most cases to be triumphant, to rest 
on their laurels. But Lenin did not in the least resemble 
such leaders. On the contrary, it was precisely 
after a victory that he became especially vigilant and 
cautious. I recall that Lenin insistently impressed on 
the delegates: ³The first thing is not to become intoxicated 
by victory and not to boast; the second thing 
is to consolidate the victory; the third is to give the 
enemy the finishing stroke, for he has been beaten, but 
by no means crushed.² He poured withering scorn on 
those delegates who frivolously asserted: ³It is all 
over with the Mensheviks now.² He had no difficulty 
in showing that the Mensheviks still had roots in the 
working-class movement, that they had to be fought 
with skill, and that all overestimation of one¹s own 
strength and, especially, all underestimation of the 
strength of the enemy had to be avoided. 
³No boasting in victory²‹this was the feature of 
Lenin¹s character that helped him soberly to weigh the 
strength of the enemy and to insure the Party against 
possible surprises. 
FIDELITY TO PRINCIPLE 
Party leaders cannot but prize the opinion of the 
majority of their party. A majority is a power with 
which a leader cannot but reckon. Lenin understood 
this no less than any other party leader. But Lenin 
never became a captive of the majority, especially when 
that majority had no basis of principle. There have been 
times in the history of our Party when the opinion of 
the majority or the momentary interests of the Party

J. V. S T A L I N 60 
conflicted with the fundamental interests of the proletariat. 
On such occasions Lenin would never hesitate 
and resolutely took his stand in support of principle as 
against the majority of the Party. Moreover, he did not 
fear on such occasions literally to stand alone against 
all, considering‹as he would often say‹that ³a policy 
based on principle is the only correct policy.² 
Particularly characteristic in this respect are the 
two following facts. 
First fact. It was in the period 1909-11, when the 
Party, smashed by the counter-revolution, was in process 
of complete disintegration. It was a period of disbelief 
in the Party, of wholesale desertion from the Party, 
not only by the intellectuals, but partly even by the workers; 
a period when the necessity for illegal organisation 
was being denied, a period of Liquidationism and 
collapse. Not only the Mensheviks, but even the Bolsheviks 
then consisted of a number of factions and trends, 
for the most part severed from the working-class movement. 
You know that it was just at that period that the 
idea arose of completely liquidating the illegal organisation 
and organising the workers into a legal, liberal 
Stolypin party. Lenin at that time was the only one not 
to succumb to the widespread epidemic and to hold high 
the banner of Party principle, assembling the scattered 
and shattered forces of the Party with astonishing patience 
and extraordinary persistence, combating each and every 
anti-Party trend within the working-class movement 
and defending the Party principle with unusual courage 
and unparalleled perseverance. 
We know that in this fight for the Party principle, 
Lenin later proved the victor.

LENIN 61 
Second fact. It was in the period 1914-17, when the 
imperialist war was in full swing, and when all, or 
nearly all, the Social-Democratic and Socialist parties 
had succumbed to the general patriotic frenzy and had 
placed themselves at the service of the imperialism of 
their respective countries. It was a period when the Second 
International had hauled down its colours to capitalism, 
when even people like Plekhanov, Kautsky, 
Guesde and the rest were unable to withstand the tide 
of chauvinism. Lenin at that time was the only one, 
or almost the only one, to wage a determined struggle 
against social-chauvinism and social-pacifism, to 
denounce the treachery of the Guesdes and Kautskys, 
and to stigmatise the half-heartedness of the betwixt 
and between ³revolutionaries.² Lenin knew that 
he was backed by only an insignificant minority, 
but to him this was not of decisive moment, for he 
knew that the only correct policy with a future before 
it was the policy of consistent internationalism, 
that a policy based on principle is the only correct 
policy. 
We know that in this fight for a new International, 
too, Lenin proved the victor. 
³A policy based on principle is the only correct 
policy²‹this was the formula by means of which Lenin 
took new ³impregnable² positions by assault and won 
over the best elements of the proletariat to revolutionary 
Marxism.

J. V. S T A L I N 62 
FAITH IN THE MASSES 
Theoreticians and leaders of parties, men who are 
acquainted with the history of nations and who have 
studied the history of revolutions from beginning to 
end, are sometimes afflicted by a shameful disease. 
This disease is called fear of the masses, disbelief in the 
creative power of the masses. This sometimes gives 
rise in the leaders to a kind of aristocratic attitude 
towards the masses, who, although not versed in 
the history of revolutions, are destined to destroy the 
old order and build the new. This kind of aristocratic 
attitude is due to a fear that the elements may break 
loose, that the masses may ³destroy too much²; it is 
due to a desire to play the part of a mentor who tries 
to teach the masses from books, but who is averse to 
learning from the masses. 
Lenin was the very antithesis of such leaders. I do 
not know of any other revolutionary who had so profound 
a faith in the creative power of the proletariat 
and in the revolutionary efficacy of its class instinct as 
Lenin. I do not know of any other revolutionary who could 
scourge the smug critics of the ³chaos of revolution² 
and the ³riot of unauthorised actions of the masses² so 
ruthlessly as Lenin. I recall that when in the course of 
a conversation one comrade said that ³the revolution 
should be followed by the normal order of things,² Lenin 
sarcastically remarked: ³It is a pity that people who want 
to be revolutionaries forget that the most normal order 
of things in history is the revolutionary order of things.² 
Hence, Lenin¹s contempt for all who superciliously 
looked down on the masses and tried to teach them from

LENIN 63 
books. And hence, Lenin¹s constant precept: learn 
from the masses, try to comprehend their actions, carefully 
study the practical experience of the struggle of 
the masses. 
Faith in the creative power of the masses‹this was 
the feature of Lenin¹s activities which enabled him to 
comprehend the spontaneous process and to direct its 
movement into the channel of the proletarian revolution. 
THE GENIUS OF REVOLUTION 
Lenin was born for revolution. He was, in truth, the 
genius of revolutionary outbreaks and the greatest master 
of the art of revolutionary leadership. Never did he feel 
so free and happy as in a time of revolutionary upheavals. 
I do not mean by this that Lenin approved equally 
of all revolutionary upheavals, or that he was in favour 
of revolutionary outbreaks at all times and under all 
circumstances. Not at all. What I do mean is that never 
was the genius of Lenin¹s insight displayed so fully and 
distinctly as in a time of revolutionary outbreaks. In 
times of revolution he literally blossomed forth, became 
a seer, divined the movement of classes and the probable 
zigzags of the revolution, seeing them as if they 
lay in the palm of his hand. It was with good reason that 
it used to be said in our Party circles: ³Lenin swims in 
the tide of revolution like a fish in water.² 
Hence the ³amazing² clarity of Lenin¹s tactical 
slogans and the ³breath-taking² boldness of his revolutionary 
plans. 
I recall two facts which are particularly characteristic 
of this feature of Lenin.

J. V. S T A L I N 64 
First fact. It was in the period just prior to the October 
Revolution, when millions of workers, peasants 
and soldiers, impelled by the crisis in the rear and at the 
front, were demanding peace and liberty; when the generals 
and the bourgeoisie were working for a military 
dictatorship for the sake of ³war to a finish²; when the 
whole of so-called ³public opinion² and all the so-called 
³Socialist parties² were hostile to the Bolsheviks and 
were branding them as ³German spies²; when Kerensky 
was trying‹already with some success‹to drive 
the Bolshevik Party underground; and when the still 
powerful and disciplined armies of the Austro-German 
coalition confronted our weary, disintegrating armies, 
while the West-European ³Socialists² lived in blissful 
alliance with their governments for the sake of ³war 
to complete victory.². . . 
What did starting an uprising at such a moment 
mean? Starting an uprising in such a situation meant 
staking everything. But Lenin did not fear the risk, 
for he knew, he saw with his prophetic eye, that an uprising 
was inevitable, that it would win; that an uprising 
in Russia would pave the way for ending the imperialist 
war, that it would rouse the war-weary masses 
of the West, that it would transform the imperialist 
war into a civil war; that the uprising would usher in 
a Republic of Soviets, and that the Republic of Soviets 
would serve as a bulwark for the revolutionary movement 
throughout the world. 
We know that Lenin¹s revolutionary foresight was 
subsequently confirmed with unparalleled exactness. 
Second fact. It was in the first days of the October 
Revolution, when the Council of People¹s Commissars

LENIN 65 
was trying to compel General Dukhonin, the mutinous 
Commander-in-chief, to terminate hostilities and open 
negotiations for an armistice with the Germans. I recall 
that Lenin, Krylenko (the future Commander-in-Chief) 
and I went to General Staff Headquarters in Petrograd 
to negotiate with Dukhonin over the direct wire. It was 
a ghastly moment. Dukhonin and Field Headquarters 
categorically refused to obey the order of the Council 
of People¹s Commissars. The army officers were completely 
under the sway of Field Headquarters. As for 
the soldiers, no one could tell what this army of fourteen 
million would say, subordinated as it was to the 
so-called army organisations, which were hostile to the 
Soviet power. In Petrograd itself, as we know, a mutiny of 
the military cadets was brewing. Furthermore, Kerensky 
was marching on Petrograd. I recall that after a pause 
at the direct wire, Lenin¹s face suddenly shone with an 
extraordinary light. Clearly he had arrived at a decision. 
³Let¹s go to the wireless station,² he said, ³it will stand 
us in good stead. We shall issue a special order dismissing 
General Dukhonin, appoint Comrade Krylenko 
Commander-in-Chief in his place and appeal to the 
soldiers over the heads of the officers, calling upon them 
to surround the generals, to cease hostilities, to establish 
contact with the Austro-German soldiers and take 
the cause of peace into their own hands.² 
This was ³a leap in the dark.² But Lenin did not 
shrink from this ³leap²; on the contrary, he made it 
eagerly, for he knew that the army wanted peace and 
would win peace, sweeping every obstacle from its path; 
he knew that this method of establishing peace was 
bound to have its effect on the Austro-German soldiers

J. V. S T A L I N 66 
and would give full rein to the yearning for peace on 
every front without exception. 
We know that here, too, Lenin¹s revolutionary 
foresight was subsequently confirmed with the utmost 
exactness. 
The insight of genius, the ability rapidly to grasp 
and divine the inner meaning of impending events this 
was the quality of Lenin which enabled him to lay down 
the correct strategy and a clear line of conduct at turning 
points of the revolutionary movement. 
Pravda, No. 34, 
February 12, 1924

ON THE CONTRADICTIONS 
IN THE YOUNG COMMUNIST LEAGUE 
Speech at the C.C., R.C.P.(B.) 
Conference on Work Among the Youth14 
April 3, 1924 
I must first of all say something about the attitude 
of the Central Committee of the Russian Young Communist 
League to the Party discussion. It was a mistake for 
the Central Committee of the League to continue its 
stubborn silence after the local organisations had stated 
their views. But it would be wrong to attribute this 
silence of the League¹s Central Committee to a policy 
of neutrality. They were just over -cautious. 
Now a few words about the debate. I think that 
among you there are no disagreements based on principle. 
I have studied your theses and articles and have 
failed to find any such disagreements. But there is confusion 
and a heap of imaginary ³irreconcilable² contradictions. 
The f i r s t contradiction: contrasting the League 
as a ³reserve² to the League as an ³instrument² of the 
Party. What is the League‹a reserve or an instrument? 
Both. This is obvious, and it was stated by the comrades 
themselves in their speeches. The Young Communist 
League is a reserve, a reserve of peasants and workers 
from which the Party augments its ranks. But it is, at 
the same time, an instrument, an instrument in the hands 
of the Party, bringing the masses of the youth under 
its influence. More specifically, it could be said that

J. V. S T A L I N 68 
the League is an instrument of the Party, an auxiliary 
weapon of the Party, in the sense that the active League 
membership is an instrument of the Party for influencing 
the youth not organised in the League. These conceptions 
do not contradict one another, and cannot be 
put in contrast to one another. 
A second so-called irreconcilable contradiction: some 
comrades think that the ³class policy of the League 
is determined not by its composition, but by the staunchness 
of the people who stand at its head.² Staunchness 
is contrasted to composition. This contradiction, too, is 
imaginary, because the class policy of the R.Y.C.L. 
is determined by both factors‹composition and staunchness 
of the top leadership. If staunch people are subjected 
to the influence of a League membership that is 
alien to them in spirit, all the League members enjoying 
equal rights, then a membership of this kind cannot 
but leave its imprint on the League¹s activity and policy. 
Why does the Party regulate the composition of 
its membership? Because it knows that the composition 
of the membership influences its activities. 
Lastly, one more contradiction, similarly imaginary, 
concerning the role of the League and its work among 
the peasants. Some take the view that the task of the 
League is to ³consolidate² its influence among the peasants, 
but not to extend that influence; others, apparently, 
want to ³extend the influence,² but do not agree 
with the need for consolidation. There is an attempt 
to make this an issue in the discussion. It is clear that 
to draw a contrast between these two tasks is artificial, 
for everyone understands quite well that the League 
must, at one and the same time, consolidate and extend

ON THE CONTRADICTIONS IN THE Y.C.L. 69 
its influence in the countryside. True, in one place in 
the League Central Committee¹s theses there is an awkward 
expression on work among the peasants. But neither 
Tarkhanov nor the other representatives of the 
League Central Committee majority have insisted on 
it, and they are prepared to correct it. That being the 
case, is it worth while disputing over minor points? 
But there is one real, not imaginary, contradiction 
in the life and work of the Young Communist League 
about which I should like to say a few words. I have in 
mind the existence of two tendencies in the League: the 
worker tendency and the peasant tendency. I have in 
mind the contradiction between these tendencies, which 
is making itself felt, and which we cannot afford to 
ignore. Discussion of this contradiction has been the 
weakest point in the speeches. All the speakers declared 
that the League must grow by recruiting workers, but 
they all stumbled as soon as they turned to the peasantry, 
to the question of recruiting peasants. Even those who 
spoke simply and straightforwardly stumbled on this 
point. 
Obviously, two problems confront the R.Y.C.L.: the 
worker problem and the peasant problem. It is obvious 
that, since the Y.C.L. i s a workers¹ and peasants¹ 
league, these two tendencies, these contradictions within 
the League, will remain in future too. Some will stress 
the need to recruit workers, saying nothing about the 
peasantry; others will stress the need to recruit peasants, 
underestimating the importance of the proletarian element 
as the leading element in the League. It is this 
internal contradiction, inherent in the very nature of 
the League, that makes the speakers stumble. In their

J. V. S T A L I N 70 
speeches, some drew a parallel between the Party and 
the Y.C.L., but the fact of the matter is that no such 
parallel can exist, because our Party is a workers¹ party, 
not a workers¹ and peasants¹ party, while the Y.C.L. 
is a workers¹ and peasants¹ league. That is why the 
Y.C.L. cannot be only a workers¹ league, but must, at 
one and the same time, be a workers¹ league and a peasants¹ 
league. One thing is clear: with the present structure 
of the League, internal contradictions and the struggle 
of tendencies are inevitable in future too. 
Those who say that the middle-peasant youth should 
be recruited into the Party are correct, but we should 
be careful not to slip into the conception of a workers¹ 
and peasants¹ party, as even some responsible functionaries 
are prone to do at times. Many have loudly demanded: 
³You are recruiting workers into the Party, 
why not recruit peasants on the same scale? Let us bring 
in a hundred thousand peasants, or two hundred thousand.² 
The Central Committee is opposed to this, for 
our Party must be a workers¹ party. The ratio in the 
Party should be approximately 70 or 80 per cent workers 
to 20-25 per cent non-workers. The position is somewhat 
different with regard to the Y.C.L. The Young 
Communist League is a voluntary, free organisation 
of the revolutionary elements of the worker and peasant 
youth. Without peasants, without the mass of the 
peasant youth, it will cease to be a workers¹ and peasants¹ 
league. But its work should be so organised that 
the leading role remains with the proletarian element. 
First published in the book: 
J. Stalin, On the Young Communist League, 
Moscow, 1926

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM15 
Lectures Delivered at the Sverdlov University 
The foundations of Leninism is a big subject. To exhaust 
it a whole volume would be required. Indeed, 
a number of volumes would be required. Naturally, 
therefore, my lectures cannot be an exhaustive exposition 
of Leninism; at best they can only offer a concise 
synopsis of the foundations of Leninism. Nevertheless, 
I consider it useful to give this synopsis, in order to lay 
down some basic points of departure necessary for the 
successful study of Leninism. 
Expounding the foundations of Leninism still does 
not mean expounding the basis of Lenin¹s world outlook. 
Lenin¹s world outlook and the foundations of Leninism 
are not identical in scope. Lenin was a Marxist, and Marxism 
is, of course, the basis of his world outlook. But 
from this it does not at all follow that an exposition 
of Leninism ought to begin with an exposition of the 
foundations of Marxism. To expound Leninism means to 
expound the distinctive and new in the works of Lenin 
that Lenin contributed to the general treasury of Marxism 
and that is naturally connected with his name. Only 
in this sense will I speak in my lectures of the foundations 
of Leninism. 
D E D I C A T E D 
TO THE LENIN ENROLMENT 
J. S T A L I N

J. V. S T A L I N 72 
And so, what is Leninism? 
Some say that Leninism is the application of Marxism 
to the conditions that are peculiar to the situation 
in Russia. This definition contains a particle of truth, 
but not the whole truth by any means. Lenin, indeed, 
applied Marxism to Russian conditions, and applied 
it in a masterly way. But if Leninism were only the 
application of Marxism to the conditions that are peculiar 
to Russia i t would be a purely national and 
only a national, a purely Russian and only a Russian, 
phenomenon. We know, however, that Leninism is not 
merely a Russian, but an international phenomenon 
rooted in the whole of international development. That 
is why I think this definition suffers from one-sidedness. 
Others say that Leninism is the revival of the revolutionary 
elements of Marxism of the forties of the nineteenth 
century, as distinct from the Marxism of subsequent 
years, when, it is alleged, it became moderate, 
non-revolutionary. If we disregard this foolish and vulgar 
division of the teachings of Marx into two parts, 
revolutionary and moderate, we must admit that even 
this totally inadequate and unsatisfactory definition 
contains a particle of truth. This particle of truth is 
that Lenin did indeed restore the revolutionary content 
of Marxism, which had been suppressed by the opportunists 
of the Second International. Still, that is but 
a particle of the truth. The whole truth about Leninism 
is that Leninism not only restored Marxism, but also 
took a step forward, developing Marxism further under 
the new conditions of capitalism and of the class struggle 
of the proletariat.

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 73 
What, then, in the last analysis, is Leninism? 
Leninism is Marxism of the era of imperialism and 
the proletarian revolution. To be more exact, Leninism 
is the theory and tactics of the proletarian revolution 
in general, the theory and tactics of the dictatorship 
of the proletariat in particular. Marx and Engels pursued 
their activities in the pre-revolutionary period (we have 
the proletarian revolution in mind), when developed 
imperialism did not yet exist, in the period of the proletarians¹ 
preparation for revolution, in the period when 
the proletarian revolution was not yet an immediate 
practical inevitability. But Lenin, the disciple of Marx 
and Engels, pursued his activities in the period of developed 
imperialism, in the period of the unfolding proletarian 
revolution, when the proletarian revolution had 
already triumphed in one country, had smashed bourgeois 
democracy and had ushered in the era of proletarian democracy, 
the era of the Soviets. 
That is why Leninism is the further development 
of Marxism. 
It is usual to point to the exceptionally militant and 
exceptionally revolutionary character of Leninism. This 
is quite correct. But this specific feature of Leninism 
is due to two causes: firstly, to the fact that Leninism 
emerged from the proletarian revolution, the imprint 
of which it cannot but bear; secondly, to the fact that it 
grew and became strong in clashes with the opportunism 
of the Second International, the fight against which 
was and remains an essential preliminary condition for 
a successful fight against capitalism. It must not be 
forgotten that between Marx and Engels, on the one 
hand, and Lenin, on the other, there lies a whole period

J. V. S T A L I N 74 
of undivided domination of the opportunism of the Second 
International, and the ruthless struggle against 
this opportunism could not but constitute one of the 
most important tasks of Leninism. 
I 
THE HISTORICAL ROOTS OF LENINISM 
Leninism grew up and took shape under the conditions 
of imperialism, when the contradictions of capitalism 
had reached an extreme point, when the proletarian 
revolution had become an immediate practical question, 
when the old period of preparation of the working class 
for revolution had come up and passed over to a new 
period, that of direct assault on capitalism. 
Lenin called imperialism ³moribund capitalism.² 
Why? Because imperialism carries the contradictions of 
capitalism to their last bounds, to the extreme limit, 
beyond which revolution begins. Of these contradictions, 
there are three which must be regarded as the most important. 
The first contradiction is the contradiction between 
labour and capital. Imperialism is the omnipotence of 
the monopolist trusts and syndicates, of the banks 
and the financial oligarchy, in the industrial countries. In 
the fight against this omnipotence, the customary 
methods of the working class‹trade unions and cooperatives, 
parliamentary parties and the parliamentary 
struggle‹have proved to be totally inadequate. 
Either place yourself at the mercy of capital, eke out 
a wretched existence as of old and sink lower and lower, 
or adopt a new weapon‹this is the alternative im

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 75 
perialism puts before the vast masses of the proletariat. 
Imperialism brings the working class to revolution. 
The second contradiction is the contradiction among 
the various financial groups and imperialist Powers in 
their struggle for sources of raw materials, for foreign 
territory. Imperialism is the export of capital to the 
sources of raw materials, the frenzied struggle for monopolist 
possession of these sources, the struggle for a redivision 
of the already divided world, a struggle waged 
with particular fury by new financial groups and Powers 
seeking a ³place in the sun² against the old groups and 
Powers, which cling tenaciously to what they have seized. 
This frenzied struggle among the various groups of 
capitalists is notable in that it includes as an inevitable 
element imperialist wars, wars for the annexation of 
foreign territories. This circumstance, in its turn, is 
notable in that it leads to the mutual weakening of the 
imperialists, to the weakening of the position of capitalism 
in general, to the acceleration of the advent of the 
proletarian revolution and to the practical necessity of 
this revolution. 
The third contradiction is the contradiction between 
the handful of ruling, ³civilised² nations and the hundreds 
of millions of the colonial and dependent peoples 
of the world. Imperialism is the most barefaced exploitation 
and the most inhuman oppression of hundreds of 
millions of people inhabiting vast colonies and dependent 
countries. The purpose of this exploitation and of 
this oppression is to squeeze out super-profits. But in 
exploiting these countries imperialism is compelled to 
build there railways, factories and mills, industrial and 
commercial centres. The appearance of a class of

J. V. S T A L I N 76 
proletarians, the emergence of a native intelligentsia, the 
awakening of national consciousness, the growth of the 
liberation movement‹such are the inevitable results 
of this ³policy.² The growth of the revolutionary movement 
in all colonies and dependent countries without 
exception clearly testifies to this fact. This circumstance 
is of importance for the proletariat inasmuch as it saps 
radically the position of capitalism by converting the 
colonies and dependent countries from reserves of imperialism 
into reserves of the proletarian revolution. 
Such, in general, are the principal contradictions of 
imperialism which have converted the old, ³flourishing² 
capitalism into moribund capitalism. 
The significance of the imperialist war which broke 
out 10 years ago lies, among other things, in the fact 
that it gathered all these contradictions into a single 
knot and threw them on to the scales, thereby accelerating 
and facilitating the revolutionary battles of the proletariat. 
In other words, imperialism was instrumental not 
only in making the revolution a practical inevitability, 
but also in creating favourable conditions for a direct 
assault on the citadels of capitalism. 
Such was the international situation which gave 
birth to Leninism. 
Some may say: This is all very well, but what has it 
to do with Russia, which was not and could not be a 
classical land of imperialism? What has it to do with 
Lenin, who worked primarily in Russia and for Russia? 
Why did Russia, of all countries, become the home of 
Leninism, the birthplace of the theory and tactics of 
the proletarian revolution?

FROM MARX 
TO MAO 
 
NOT FOR 
COMMERCIAL 
DISTRIBUTION 
77 
Because Russia was the focus of all these contradictions 
of imperialism. 
Because Russia, more than any other country, was 
pregnant with revolution, and she alone, therefore, was 
in a position to solve those contradictions in a revolutionary 
way. 
To begin with, tsarist Russia was the home of every 
kind of oppression‹capitalist, colonial and militarist‹ 
in its most inhuman and barbarous form. Who does 
not know that in Russia the omnipotence of capital was 
combined with the despotism of tsarism, the aggressiveness 
of Russian nationalism with tsarism¹s role of 
executioner in regard to the non-Russian peoples, the exploitation 
of entire regions‹Turkey, Persia, China -- with 
the seizure of these regions by tsarism, with wars of conquest? 
Lenin was right in saying that tsarism was ³military-
feudal imperialism.² Tsarism was the concentration 
of the worst features of imperialism, raised to 
a high pitch. 
To proceed. Tsarist Russia was a major reserve of 
Western imperialism, not only in the sense that it gave 
free entry to foreign capital, which controlled such basic 
branches of Russia¹s national economy as the fuel and 
metallurgical industries, but also in the sense that it could 
supply the Western imperialists with millions of soldiers. 
Remember the Russian army, fourteen million strong, 
which shed its blood on the imperialist fronts to safeguard 
the staggering profits of the British and French 
capitalists. 
Further. Tsarism was not only the watchdog of imperialism 
in the east of Europe, but, in addition, it was 
the agent of Western imperialism for squeezing out of 
THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM

J. V. S T A L I N 78 
the population hundreds of millions by way of interest 
on loans obtained in Paris and London, Berlin and 
Brussels. 
Finally, tsarism was a most faithful ally of Western 
imperialism in the partition of Turkey, Persia, China, 
etc. Who does not know that the imperialist war was 
waged by tsarism in alliance with the imperialists of 
the Entente, and that Russia was an essential element 
in that war? 
That is why the interests of tsarism and of Western 
imperialism were interwoven and ultimately became 
merged in a single skein of imperialist interests. 
Could Western imperialism resign itself to the loss 
of such a powerful support in the East and of such a rich 
reservoir of manpower and resources as old, tsarist, bourgeois 
Russia was without exerting all its strength to 
wage a life-and-death struggle against the revolution 
in Russia, with the object of defending and preserving 
tsarism? Of course not. 
But from this it follows that whoever wanted to 
strike at tsarism necessarily raised his hand against 
imperialism, who ever rose against tsarism had to rise 
against imperialism as well; for whoever was bent on 
overthrowing tsarism had to overthrow imperialism too, 
if he really intended not merely to defeat tsarism, but 
to make a clean sweep of it. Thus the revolution against 
tsarism verged on and had to pass into a revolution against 
imperialism, into a proletarian revolution. 
Meanwhile, in Russia a tremendous popular revolution 
was rising, headed by the most revolutionary proletariat 
in the world, which possessed such an important 
ally as the revolutionary peasantry of Russia. Does it

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 79 
need proof that such a revolution could not stop halfway, 
that in the event of success it was bound to advance 
further and raise the banner of revolt against imperialism? 
That is why Russia was bound to become the focus 
of the contradictions of imperialism, not only in the 
sense that it was in Russia that these contradictions 
were revealed most plainly, in view of their particularly 
repulsive and particularly intolerable character, and not 
only because Russia was a highly important prop of 
Western imperialism, connecting Western finance capital 
with the colonies in the East, but also because Russia 
was the only country in which there existed a real force 
capable of resolving the contradictions of imperialism 
in a revolutionary way. 
From this it follows, however, that the revolution 
in Russia could not but become a proletarian revolution, 
that from its very inception it could not but assume 
an international character, and that, therefore, it 
could not but shake the very foundations of world imperialism. 
Under these circumstances, could the Russian Communists 
confine their work within the narrow national 
bounds of the Russian revolution? Of course not. On 
the contrary, the whole situation, both internal (the 
profound revolutionary crisis) and external (the war), impelled 
them to go beyond these bounds in their work, 
to transfer the struggle to the international arena, to 
expose the ulcers of imperialism, to prove that the 
collapse of capitalism was inevitable, to smash socialchauvinism 
and social-pacifism, and, finally, to overthrow 
capitalism in their own country and to forge a new

J. V. S T A L I N 80 
fighting weapon for the proletariat‹the theory and tactics 
of the proletarian revolution‹in order to facilitate 
the task of overthrowing capitalism for the proletarians 
of all countries. Nor could the Russian Communists act 
otherwise; for only this path offered the chance of producing 
certain changes in the international situation 
which could safeguard Russia against the restoration of 
the bourgeois order. 
That is why Russia became the home of Leninism, 
and why Lenin, the leader of the Russian Communists, 
became its creator. 
The same thing, approximately, ³happened² in the 
case of Russia and Lenin as in the case of Germany and 
Marx and Engels in the forties of the last century. Germany 
at that time was pregnant with bourgeois revolution 
just like Russia at the beginning of the twentieth 
century. Marx wrote at that time in the Communist 
Manifesto: 
³The Communists turn their attention chiefly to Germany, 
because that country is on the eve of a bourgeois revolution that 
is bound to be carried out under more advanced conditions of 
European civilisation, and with a much more developed proletariat 
than that of England was in the seventeenth, and of France 
in the eighteenth century, and because the bourgeois revolution 
in Germany will be but the prelude to an immediately following 
proletarian revolution.²16 
In other words, the centre of the revolutionary movement 
was shifting to Germany. 
There can hardly be any doubt that it was this very 
circumstance, noted by Marx in the above-quoted passage, 
that served as the probable reason why it was precisely 
Germany that became the birthplace of scientific social

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 81 
ism and why the leaders of the German proletariat, 
Marx and Engels, became its creators. 
The same, only to a still greater degree, must be 
said of Russia at the beginning of the twentieth century. 
Russia was then on the eve of a bourgeois revolution; 
she had to accomplish this revolution at a time when 
conditions in Europe were more advanced, and with 
a proletariat that was more developed than that of 
Germany in the forties of the nineteenth century (let 
alone Britain and France); moreover, all the evidence 
went to show that this revolution was bound to serve 
as a ferment and as a prelude to the proletarian revolution. 
We cannot regard it as accidental that as early as 
1902, when the Russian revolution was still in an embryonic 
state, Lenin wrote the prophetic words in his 
pamphlet What Is To Be Done? : 
³History has now confronted us (i.e., the Russian Marxists‹ 
J. St.) with an immediate task which is the most revolutionary 
of all the immediate tasks that confront the proletariat of any 
country, ² 
and that . . . ³fulfilment of this task, the destruction of the 
most powerful bulwark, not only of European, but also (it may 
now be said) of Asiatic reaction, would make the Russian proletariat 
the vanguard of the international revolutionary proletariat² 
(See Vol. IV, p. 382). 
In other words, the centre of the revolutionary movement 
was bound to shift to Russia. 
As we know, the course of the revolution in Russia 
has more than vindicated Lenin¹s prediction. 
Is it surprising, after all this, that a country which 
has accomplished such a revolution and possesses such

J. V. S T A L I N 82 
a proletariat should have been the birthplace of the 
theory and tactics of the proletarian revolution? 
Is it surprising that Lenin, the leader of Russia¹s 
proletariat, became also the creator of this theory and 
tactics and the leader of the international proletariat? 
II 
METHOD 
I have already said that between Marx and Engels, 
on the one hand, and Lenin, on the other, there lies 
a whole period of domination of the opportunism of the 
Second International. For the sake of exactitude I must 
add that it is not the formal domination of opportunism 
I have in mind, but only its actual domination. Formally, 
the Second International was headed by ³faithful² 
Marxists, by the ³orthodox²‹Kautsky and others. Actually, 
however, the main work of the Second International 
followed the line of opportunism. The opportunists 
adapted themselves to the bourgeoisie because of their 
adaptive, petty-bourgeois nature; the ³orthodox,² in 
their turn adapted themselves to the opportunists in 
order to ³preserve unity² with them, in the interests 
of ³peace within the party.² Thus the link between the 
policy of the bourgeoisie and the policy of the ³orthodox² 
was closed, and, as a result, opportunism reigned 
supreme. 
This was the period of the relatively peaceful development 
of capitalism, the pre-war period, so to speak, 
when the catastrophic contradictions of imperialism had 
not yet become so glaringly evident, when workers¹ 
economic strikes and trade unions were developing more

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 83 
or less ³normally,² when election campaigns and parliamentary 
groups yielded ³dizzying² successes, when legal 
forms of struggle were lauded to the skies, and when it 
was thought that capitalism would be ³killed² by legal 
means‹in short, when the parties of the Second International 
were living in clover and had no inclination to 
think seriously about revolution, about the dictatorship 
of the proletariat, about the revolutionary education of 
the masses. 
Instead of an integral revolutionary theory, there 
were contradictory theoretical postulates and fragments 
of theory, which were divorced from the actual revolutionary 
struggle of the masses and had been turned into 
threadbare dogmas. For the sake of appearances, Marx¹s 
theory was mentioned, of course, but only to rob it of its 
living, revolutionary spirit. 
Instead of a revolutionary policy, there was flabby 
philistinism and sordid political bargaining, parliamentary 
diplomacy and parliamentary scheming. For the 
sake of appearances, of course, ³revolutionary² resolutions 
and slogans were adopted, but only to be pigeonholed. 
Instead of the party being trained and taught correct 
revolutionary tactics on the basis of its own mistakes, 
there was a studied evasion of nagging questions, which 
were glossed over and veiled. For the sake of appearances, 
of course, there was no objection to talking about 
nagging questions, but only in order to wind up with some 
sort of ³elastic² resolution. 
Such was the physiognomy of the Second International, 
its method of work, its arsenal. 
Meanwhile, a new period of imperialist wars and of 
revolutionary battles of the proletariat was approaching.

J. V. S T A L I N 84 
The old methods of fighting were proving obviously inadequate 
and impotent in face of the omnipotence of 
finance capital. 
It became necessary to overhaul the entire activity 
of the Second International, its entire method of work, 
and to drive out all philistinism, narrow-mindedness, 
politicians¹ tricks, renegacy, social-chauvinism and 
social-pacifism. It became necessary to examine the entire 
arsenal of the Second International, to throw out all that 
was rusty and antiquated, to forge new weapons. Without 
this preliminary work it was useless embarking 
upon war against capitalism. Without this work the proletariat 
ran the risk of finding itself inadequately armed, 
or even completely unarmed, in the future revolutionary 
battles. 
The honour of bringing about this general overhauling 
and general cleansing of the Augean stables of the 
Second International fell to Leninism. 
Such were the conditions under which the method of 
Leninism was born and hammered out. 
What are the requirements of this method? 
Firstly, the testing of the theoretical dogmas of the 
Second International in the crucible of the revolutionary 
struggle of the masses, in the crucible of living practice‹
that is to say, the restoration of the broken unity 
between theory and practice, the healing of the rift 
between them; for only in this way can a truly proletarian 
party armed with revolutionary theory be 
created. 
Secondly, the testing of the policy of the parties of the 
Second International, not by their slogans and resolutions 
(which cannot be trusted), but by their deeds, by

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 85 
their actions; for only in this way can the confidence of 
the proletarian masses be won and deserved. 
Thirdly, the reorganisation of all Party work on new 
revolutionary lines, with a view to training and preparing 
the masses for the revolutionary struggle; for only in 
this way can the masses be prepared for the proletarian 
revolution. 
Fourthly, self-criticism within the proletarian parties, 
their education and training on the basis of their own 
mistakes; for only in this way can genuine cadres and 
genuine leaders of the Party be trained. 
Such is the basis and substance of the method of 
Leninism. 
How was this method applied in practice? 
The opportunists of the Second International have 
a number of theoretical dogmas to which they always 
revert as their starting point. Let us take a few of these. 
First dogma: concerning the conditions for the seizure 
of power by the proletariat. The opportunists assert 
that the proletariat cannot and ought not to take power 
unless it constitutes a majority in the country. No proofs 
are brought forward; for there are no proofs, either theoretical 
or practical, that can bear out this absurd thesis. 
Let us assume that this is so, Lenin replies to the gentlemen 
of the Second International; but suppose a historical 
situation has arisen (a war, an agrarian crisis, etc.) 
in which the proletariat, constituting a minority of the 
population, has an opportunity to rally around itself 
the vast majority of the labouring masses; why should 
it not take power then? Why should the proletariat not 
take advantage of a favourable international and internal 
situation to pierce the front of capital and hasten the

J. V. S T A L I N 86 
general denouement? Did not Marx say as far back as 
the fifties of the last century that things could go ³splendidly² 
with the proletarian revolution in Germany were 
it possible to back it by, so to speak, a ³second edition 
of the Peasants¹ War²17? Is it not a generally known 
fact that in those days the number of proletarians in 
Germany was relatively smaller than, for example, in 
Russia in 1917? Has not the practical experience of the 
Russian proletarian revolution shown that this favourite 
dogma of the heroes of the Second International is devoid 
of all vital significance for the proletariat? Is it not clear 
that the practical experience of the revolutionary struggle 
of the masses refutes and smashes this obsolete dogma? 
Second dogma: The proletariat cannot retain power 
if it lacks an adequate number of trained cultural and 
administrative cadres capable of organising the administration 
of the country; these cadres must first be trained 
under capitalist conditions, and only then can power 
be taken. Let us assume that this is so, replies Lenin; 
but why not turn it this way: first take power, create 
favourable conditions for the development of the proletariat, 
and then proceed with seven-league strides to 
raise the cultural level of the labouring masses and 
train numerous cadres of leaders and administrators 
from among the workers? Has not Russian experience 
shown that the cadres of leaders recruited from the ranks 
of the workers develop a hundred times more rapidly and 
effectually under the rule of the proletariat than under 
the rule of capital? Is it not clear that the practical 
experience of the revolutionary struggle of the masses 
ruthlessly smashes this theoretical dogma of the opportunists 
too?

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 87 
Third dogma: The proletariat cannot accept the method 
of the political general strike because it is unsound 
in theory (see Engels¹ criticism) and dangerous in practice 
(it may disturb the normal course of economic life 
in the country, it may deplete the coffers of the trade 
unions), and cannot serve as a substitute for parliamentary 
forms of struggle, which are the principal form 
of the class struggle of the proletariat. Very well, reply 
the Leninists; but, firstly, Engels did not criticise every 
kind of general strike. He only criticised a certain kind 
of general strike, namely, the economic general strike 
advocated by the Anarchists18 in place of the political 
struggle of the proletariat. What has this to do with the 
method of the political general strike? Secondly, where 
and by whom has it ever been proved that the parliamentary 
form of struggle is the principal form of struggle 
of the proletariat? Does not the history of the revolutionary 
movement show that the parliamentary struggle is only 
a school for, and an auxiliary in, organising the extraparliamentary 
struggle of the proletariat, that under 
capitalism the fundamental problems of the workingclass 
movement are solved by force, by the direct struggle 
of the proletarian masses, their general strike, their 
uprising? Thirdly, who suggested that the method of 
the political general strike be substituted for the parliamentary 
struggle? Where and when have the supporters 
of the political general strike sought to substitute extraparliamentary 
forms of struggle for parliamentary forms? 
Fourthly, has not the revolution in Russia shown that 
the political general strike is a highly important school 
for the proletarian revolution and an indispensable means 
of mobilising and organising the vast masses of the

J. V. S T A L I N 88 
proletariat on the eve of storming the citadels of capitalism? 
Why then the philistine lamentations over the 
disturbance of the normal course of economic life and 
over the coffers of the trade unions? Is it not clear that 
the practical experience of the revolutionary struggle 
smashes this dogma of the opportunists too? 
And so on and so forth. 
That is why Lenin said that ³revolutionary theory 
. . . is not a dogma,² that it ³assumes final shape only in 
close connection with the practical activity of a truly 
mass and truly revolutionary movement² (³Left-Wing² 
Communism19); for theory must serve practice, for ³theory 
must answer the questions raised by practice² (What 
the ³Friends of the People² Are20), for it must be tested 
by practical results. 
As to the political slogans and political resolutions 
of the parties of the Second International, it is 
sufficient to recall the history of the slogan ³war against 
war² to realise how utterly false and utterly rotten are 
the political practices of these parties, which use pompous 
revolutionary slogans and resolutions to cloak their antirevolutionary 
deeds. We all remember the pompous 
demonstration of the Second International at the Basle 
Congress,21 at which it threatened the imperialists with 
all the horrors of insurrection if they should dare to start 
a war, and with the menacing slogan ³war against war.² 
But who does not remember that some time after, on 
the very eve of the war, the Basle resolution was pigeonholed 
and the workers were given a new slogan‹to exterminate 
each other for the glory of their capitalist fatherlands? 
Is it not clear that revolutionary slogans and resolutions 
are not worth a farthing unless backed by deeds?

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 89 
One need only contrast the Leninist policy of transforming 
the imperialist war into civil war with the 
treacherous policy of the Second International during 
the war to understand the utter baseness of the opportunist 
politicians and the full grandeur of the method of 
Leninism. 
I cannot refrain from quoting at this point a passage 
from Lenin¹s book The Proletarian Revolution and the 
Renegade Kautsky, in which Lenin severely castigates 
an opportunist attempt by the leader of the Second 
International, K. Kautsky, to judge parties not by their 
deeds, but by their paper slogans and documents: 
³Kautsky is pursuing a typically petty-bourgeois, philistine 
policy by pretending . . . that putting forward a slogan 
alters the position. The entire history of bourgeois democracy 
refutes this illusion; the bourgeois democrats have always advanced 
and still advance all sorts of Œslogans¹ in order to deceive the people. 
The point is to test their sincerity, to compare their words with 
their deeds, not to be satisfied with idealistic or charlatan phrases, 
but to get down to class reality² (see Vol. XXIII, p. 377). 
There is no need to mention the fear the parties of the 
Second International have of self-criticism, their habit of 
concealing their mistakes, of glossing over nagging questions, 
of covering up their shortcomings by a deceptive 
show of well-being which blunts living thought and 
prevents the Party from deriving revolutionary training 
from its own mistakes‹a habit which was ridiculed and 
pilloried by Lenin. Here is what Lenin wrote about selfcriticism 
in proletarian parties in his pamphlet ³Left- 
Wing² Communism: 
³The attitude of a political party towards its own mistakes 
is one of the most important and surest ways of judging how

J. V. S T A L I N 90 
earnest the party is and how it in practice fulfils its obligations 
towards its class and the toiling masses. Frankly admitting a 
mistake, ascertaining the reasons for it, analysing the circumstances 
which gave rise to it, and thoroughly discussing the 
means of correcting it‹that is the earmark of a serious party; 
that is the way i t should perform its duties, that is the way 
it should educate and train the class, and then the masses² (see 
Vol. XXV, p. 200). 
Some say that the exposure of its own mistakes and 
self-criticism are dangerous for the Party because they 
may be used by the enemy against the party of the proletariat. 
Lenin regarded such objections as trivial and entirely 
wrong. Here is what he wrote on this subject as far 
back as 1904, in his pamphlet One Step Forward, when 
our Party was still weak and small: 
³They (i.e., the opponents of the Marxists‹J. St.) gloat and 
grimace over our controversies; and, of course, they will try to 
pick isolated passages from my pamphlet, which deals with the 
defects and shortcomings of our Party, and to use them for their 
own ends. The Russian Social-Democrats are already steeled 
enough in battle not to be perturbed by these pinpricks and to 
continue, in spite of them, their work of self-criticism and ruthless 
exposure of their own shortcomings, which will unquestionably 
and inevitably be overcome as the working-class movement 
grows² (see Vol. VI, p. 161). 
Such, in general, are the characteristic features of 
the method of Leninism. 
What is contained in Lenin¹s method was in the main 
already contained in the teachings of Marx, which, according 
to Marx himself, were ³in essence critical and 
revolutionary.²22 It is precisely this critical and revolutionary 
spirit that pervades Lenin¹s method from

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 91 
beginning to end. But it would be wrong to suppose that 
Lenin¹s method is merely the restoration of the method 
of Marx. As a matter of fact, Lenin¹s method is not only 
the restoration, but also the concretisation and further 
development of the critical and revolutionary method of 
Marx, of his materialist dialectics. 
III 
THEORY 
From this theme I take three questions: 
a) the importance of theory for the proletarian 
movement; 
b) criticism of the ³theory² of spontaneity; 
c) the theory of the proletarian revolution. 
1) The importance of theory. Some think that Leninism 
is the precedence of practice over theory in the sense 
that its main point is the translation of the Marxist 
theses into deeds, their ³execution²; as for theory, it is 
alleged that Leninism is rather unconcerned about it. 
We know that Plekhanov time and again chaffed Lenin 
about his ³unconcern² for theory, and particularly for 
philosophy. We also know that theory is not held in 
great favour by many present-day Leninist practical 
workers, particularly in view of the immense amount of 
practical work imposed upon them by the situation. 
I must declare that this more than odd opinion about 
Lenin and Leninism is quite wrong and bears no relation 
whatever to the truth; that the attempt of practical workers 
to brush theory aside runs counter to the whole 
spirit of Leninism and is fraught with serious dangers 
to the work.

J. V. S T A L I N 92 
Theory is the experience of the working-class movement 
in all countries taken in its general aspect. Of 
course, theory becomes purposeless if it is not connected 
with revolutionary practice, just as practice gropes in 
the dark if its path is not illumined by revolutionary 
theory. But theory can become a tremendous force in 
the working-class movement if it is built up in indissoluble 
connection with revolutionary practice; for theory, 
and theory alone, can give the movement confidence, 
the power of orientation, and an understanding 
of the inner relation of surrounding events; for it, and 
it alone, can help practice to realise not only how and 
in which direction classes are moving at the present 
time, but also how and in which direction they will 
move in the near future. None other than Lenin uttered 
and repeated scores of times the well-known thesis 
that: 
³Without a revolutionary theory there can be no revolutionary 
movement²* (see Vol. IV, p. 380). 
Lenin, better than anyone else, understood the great 
importance of theory, particularly for a party such as 
ours, in view of the role of vanguard fighter of the international 
proletariat which has fallen to its lot, and in 
view of the complicated internal and international situation 
in which it finds itself. Foreseeing this special role 
of our Party as far back as 1902, he thought it necessary 
even then to point out that: 
³The role of vanguard fighter can be fulfilled only 
by a party that is guided by the most advanced theory² (see 
Vol. IV, p. 380). 
* My italics.‹J. St.

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 93 
I t scarcely needs proof that now, when Lenin¹s 
prediction about the role of our Party has come true, 
this thesis of Lenin¹s acquires special force and special 
importance. 
Perhaps the most striking expression of the great importance 
which Lenin attached to theory is the fact that 
none other than Lenin undertook the very serious task 
of generalising, on the basis of materialist philosophy, the 
most important achievements of science from the time 
of Engels down to his own time, as well as of subjecting 
to comprehensive criticism the anti-materialistic trends 
among Marxists. Engels said that ³materialism must 
assume a new aspect with every new great discovery.²23 
It is well known that none other than Lenin accomplished 
this task for his own time in his remarkable work 
Materialism and Empirio-Criticism.24 It is well known 
that Plekhanov, who loved to chaff Lenin about his ³unconcern² 
for philosophy, did not even dare to make a 
serious attempt to undertake such a task. 
2) Criticism of the ³theory² of spontaneity, or the role 
of the vanguard in the movement. The ³theory² of spontaneity 
is a theory of opportunism, a theory of worshipping 
the spontaneity of the labour movement, a theory 
which actually repudiates the leading role of the vanguard 
of the working class, of the party of the working 
class. 
The theory of worshipping spontaneity is decidedly 
opposed to the revolutionary character of the workingclass 
movement; it is opposed to the movement taking 
the line of struggle against the foundations of capitalism; 
it is in favour of the movement proceeding 
exclusively along the line of ³realisable² demands, of

J. V. S T A L I N 94 
demands ³acceptable² to capitalism; it is wholly in favour 
of the ³line of least resistance.² The theory of spontaneity 
is the ideology of trade-unionism. 
The theory of worshipping spontaneity is decidedly 
opposed to giving the spontaneous movement a politically 
conscious, planned character. It is opposed to 
the Party marching at the head of the working 
class, to the Party raising the masses to the level of political 
consciousness, to the Party leading the movement; 
it is in favour of the politically conscious elements 
of the movement not hindering the movement from 
taking its own course; i t is in favour of the Party 
only heeding the spontaneous movement and dragging 
at the tail of it. The theory of spontaneity is the theory 
of belittling the role of the conscious element in the movement, 
the ideology of ³khvostism,² the logical basis of 
all opportunism. 
In practice this theory, which appeared on the scene 
even before the first revolution in Russia, led its adherents, 
the so-called ³Economists,² to deny the need for 
an independent workers¹ party in Russia, to oppose the 
revolutionary struggle of the working class for the overthrow 
of tsarism, to preach a purely trade-unionist 
policy in the movement, and, in general, to surrender 
the labour movement to the hegemony of the liberal 
bourgeoisie. 
The fight of the old Iskra and the brilliant criticism 
of the theory of ³khvostism² in Lenin¹s pamphlet 
What Is To Be Done? not only smashed so-called ³Economism,² 
but also created the theoretical foundations for 
a truly revolutionary movement of the Russian working 
class.

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 95 
Without this fight it would have been quite useless 
even to think of creating an independent workers¹ party 
in Russia and of i t s playing a leading part in the 
revolution. 
But the theory of worshipping spontaneity is not an 
exclusively Russian phenomenon. It is extremely widespread‹
in a somewhat different form, it is true‹in 
all the parties of the Second International, without exception. 
I have in mind the so-called ³productive forces² 
theory as debased by the leaders of the Second International, 
which justifies everything and conciliates everybody, 
which records facts and explains them after 
everyone has become sick and tired of them, and, having 
recorded them, rests content. Marx said that the materialist 
theory could not confine itself to explaining the 
world, that it must also change it.25 But Kautsky and Co. 
are not concerned with this; they prefer to rest content 
with the first part of Marx¹s formula. 
Here is one of the numerous examples of the application 
of this ³theory.² It is said that before the imperialist 
war the parties of the Second International threaened 
to declare ³war against war² if the imperialists 
should start a war. It is said that on the very eve of the 
war these parties pigeon-holed the ³war against war² 
slogan and applied an opposite one, viz., ³war for the 
imperialist fatherland.² It is said that as a result of 
this change of slogans millions of workers were sent to 
their death. But it would be a mistake to think that 
there were some people to blame for this, that 
someone was unfaithful to the working class or betrayed 
it. Not at all! Everything happened as it should have 
happened. Firstly, because the International, it seems,

J. V. S T A L I N 96 
is ³an instrument of peace,² and not of war. Secondly, 
because, in view of the ³level of the productive forces² 
which then prevailed, nothing else could be done. The 
³productive forces² are ³to blame.² That is the precise 
explanation vouchsafed to ³us² by Mr. Kautsky¹s ³theory 
of the productive forces.² And whoever does not believe 
in that ³theory² is not a Marxist. The role of the parties? 
Their importance for the movement? But what can a 
party do against so decisive a factor as the ³level of the 
productive forces²? . . . 
One could cite a host of similar examples of the falsification 
of Marxism. 
It scarcely needs proof that this spurious ³Marxism,² 
designed to hide the nakedness of opportunism, is 
merely a European variety of the selfsame theory 
of ³khvostism² which Lenin fought even before the first 
Russian revolution. 
It scarcely needs proof that the demolition of this 
theoretical falsification is a preliminary condition for 
the creation of truly revolutionary parties in the West. 
3) The theory of the proletarian revolution. Lenin¹s 
theory of the proletarian revolution proceeds from three 
fundamental theses. 
First thesis: The domination of finance capital in 
the advanced capitalist countries; the issue of stocks 
and bonds as one of the principal operations of finance 
capital; the export of capital to the sources of raw materials, 
which is one of the foundations of imperialism; 
the omnipotence of a financial oligarchy, which is the 
result of the domination of finance capital‹all this 
reveals the grossly parasitic character of monopolist 
capitalism, makes the yoke of the capitalist trusts and

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 97 
syndicates a hundred times more burdensome, intensifies 
the indignation of the working class with the foundations 
of capitalism, and brings the masses to the proletarian 
revolution as their only salvation (see Lenin, 
Imperialism26). 
Hence the first conclusion: intensification of the revolutionary 
crisis within the capitalist countries and growth 
of the elements of an explosion on the internal, proletarian 
front in the ³metropolises.² 
Second thesis: The increase in the export of capital 
to the colonies and dependent countries; the expansion 
of ³spheres of influence² and colonial possessions until 
they cover the whole globe; the transformation of capitalism 
into a world system of financial enslavement 
and colonial oppression of the vast majority of the 
population of the world by a handful of ³advanced² 
countries‹all this has, on the one hand, converted the 
separate national economies and national territories into 
links in a single chain called world economy, and, on 
the other hand, split the population of the globe into 
two camps: a handful of ³advanced² capitalist countries 
which exploit and oppress vast colonies and dependencies, 
and the huge majority consisting of colonial and dependent 
countries which are compelled to wage a struggle for liberation 
from the imperialist yoke (see Imperialism). 
Hence the second conclusion: intensification of the 
revolutionary crisis in the colonial countries and growth 
of the elements of revolt against imperialism on the external, 
colonial front. 
Third thesis: The monopolistic possession of ³spheres 
of influence² and colonies; the uneven development of 
the capitalist countries, leading to a frenzied struggle

J. V. S T A L I N 98 
for the redivision of the world between the countries 
which have already seized territories and those claiming 
their ³share²; imperialist wars as the only means of 
restoring the disturbed ³equilibrium²‹all this leads to 
the intensification of the struggle on the third front, the 
inter-capitalist front, which weakens imperialism and 
facilitates the union of the first two fronts against imperialism: 
the front of the revolutionary proletariat and 
the front of colonial emancipation (see Imperialism). 
Hence the third conclusion: that under imperialism 
wars cannot be averted, and that a coalition between the 
proletarian revolution in Europe and the colonial revolution 
in the East in a united world front of revolution 
against the world front of imperialism is inevitable. 
Lenin combines all these conclusions into one general 
conclusion that ³imperialism is the eve of the socialist 
revolution²* (see Vol. XIX, p. 71). 
The very approach to the question of the proletarian 
revolution, of the character of the revolution, of its 
scope, of its depth, the scheme of the revolution in general, 
changes accordingly. 
Formerly, the analysis of the pre-requisites for 
the proletarian revolution was usually approached from the 
point of view of the economic state of individual countries. 
Now, this approach is no longer adequate. Now 
the matter must be approached from the point of view 
of the economic state of all or the majority of countries, 
from the point of view of the state of world economy; for 
individual countries and individual national economies 
have ceased to be self-sufficient units, have become links 
* My italics.‹J. St.

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 99 
in a single chain called world economy; for the old ³cultured² 
capitalism has evolved into imperialism, and 
imperialism is a world system of financial enslavement 
and colonial oppression of the vast majority of 
the population of the world by a handful of ³advanced² 
countries. 
Formerly it was the accepted thing to speak of the 
existence or absence of objective conditions for the proletarian 
revolution in individual countries, or, to be 
more precise, in one or another developed country. Now 
this point of view is no longer adequate. Now we must 
speak of the existence of objective conditions for the 
revolution in the entire system of world imperialist 
economy as an integral whole; the existence within this 
system of some countries that are not sufficiently developed 
industrially cannot serve as an insuperable obstacle 
to the revolution, if the system as a whole or, more correctly, 
because the system as a whole is already ripe for 
revolution. 
Formerly it was the accepted thing to speak of the 
proletarian revolution in one or another developed country 
as of a separate and self-sufficient entity opposing 
a separate national front of capital as its antipode. Now, 
this point of view is no longer adequate. Now we must 
speak of the world proletarian revolution; for the separate 
national fronts of capital have become links in a 
single chain called the world front of imperialism, which 
must be opposed by a common front of the revolutionary 
movement in all countries. 
Formerly the proletarian revolution was regarded 
exclusively as the result of the internal development 
of a given country. Now, this point of view is no longer

J. V. S T A L I N 100 
adequate. Now the proletarian revolution must be regarded 
primarily as the result of the development of the 
contradictions within the world system of imperialism, 
as the result of the breaking of the chain of the world 
imperialist front in one country or another. 
Where will the revolution begin? Where, in what 
country, can the front of capital be pierced first? 
Where industry is more developed, where the proletariat 
constitutes the majority, where there is more culture, 
where there is more democracy‹that was the reply 
usually given formerly. 
No, objects the Leninist theory of revolution, not 
necessarily where industry is more developed, and so forth. 
The front of capital will be pierced where the chain of 
imperialism is weakest, for the proletarian revolution is 
the result of the breaking of the chain of the world imperialist 
front at its weakest link; and it may turn out that 
the country which has started the revolution, which has 
made a breach in the front of capital, is less developed in 
a capitalist sense than other, more developed, countries, 
which have, however, remained within the framework 
of capitalism. 
In 1917 the chain of the imperialist world front proved 
to be weaker in Russia than in the other countries. 
I t was there that the chain broke and provided an 
outlet for the proletarian revolution. Why? Because in 
Russia a great popular revolution was unfolding, and at 
its head marched the revolutionary proletariat, which had 
such an important ally as the vast mass of the peasantry, 
which was oppressed and exploited by the landlords. 
Because the revolution there was opposed by such a hideous 
representative of imperialism as tsarism, which

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 101 
lacked all moral prestige and was deservedly hated by 
the whole population. The chain proved to be weaker 
in Russia, although Russia was less developed in a capitalist 
sense than, say, France or Germany, Britain or 
America. 
Where will the chain break in the near future? 
Again, where it is weakest. It is not precluded that the 
chain may break, say, in India. Why? Because that 
country has a young, militant, revolutionary proletariat, 
which has such an ally as the national liberation 
movement‹an undoubtedly powerful and undoubtedly 
important ally. Because there the revolution is confronted 
by such a well-known foe as foreign imperialism, 
which has no moral credit and is deservedly hated 
by all the oppressed and exploited masses of India. 
It is also quite possible that the chain will break in 
Germany. Why? Because the factors which are operating, 
say, in India are beginning to operate in Germany 
as well, but, of course, the enormous difference in the 
level of development between India and Germany cannot 
but stamp its imprint on the progress and outcome 
of a revolution in Germany. 
That is why Lenin said: 
³The West-European capitalist countries will consummate 
their development towards socialism . . . not by the even Œmaturing¹ 
of socialism in them, but by the exploitation of some countries 
by others, by the exploitation of the first of the countries to be 
vanquished in the imperialist war combined with the exploitation 
of the whole of the East. On the other hand, precisely as 
a result of the f i r s t imperialist war, the East has definitely 
come into the revolutionary movement, has been definitely drawn 
into the general maelstrom of the world revolutionary movement² 
(see Vol. XXVII, pp. 415-16).

J. V. S T A L I N 102 
Briefly, the chain of the imperialist front must, as 
a rule, break where the links are weaker and, at all 
events, not necessarily where capitalism is more developed, 
where there is such and such a percentage of proletarians 
and such and such a percentage of peasants, 
and so on. 
That is why in deciding the question of proletarian 
revolution statistical estimates of the percentage of the 
proletarian population in a given country lose the exceptional 
importance so eagerly attached to them by the 
doctrinaires of the Second International, who have not 
understood imperialism and who fear revolution like 
the plague. 
To proceed. The heroes of the Second International 
asserted (and continue to assert) that between the bourgeois-
democratic revolution and the proletarian revolution 
there is a chasm, or at any rate a Chinese Wall, 
separating one from the other by a more or less protracted 
interval of time, during which the bourgeoisie, having 
come into power, develops capitalism, while the 
proletariat accumulates strength and prepares for the 
³decisive struggle² against capitalism. This interval 
is usually calculated to extend over many decades, if 
not longer. It scarcely needs proof that this Chinese 
Wall ³theory² is totally devoid of scientific meaning under 
the conditions of imperialism, that it is and can be 
only a means of concealing and camouflaging the counterrevolutionary 
aspirations of the bourgeoisie. It scarcely 
needs proof that under the conditions of imperialism, 
fraught as it is with collisions and wars; under the 
conditions of the ³eve of the socialist revolution,² when 
³flourishing² capitalism becomes ³moribund² capi

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 103 
talism (Lenin) and the revolutionary movement is growing 
in all countries of the world; when imperialism is 
allying itself with all reactionary forces without exception 
down to and including tsarism and serfdom, thus 
making imperative the coalition of all revolutionary 
forces, from the proletarian movement of the West 
to the national liberation movement of the East; when 
the overthrow of the survivals of the regime of feudal 
serfdom becomes impossible without a revolutionary 
struggle against imperialism‹it scarcely needs proof 
that the bourgeois-democratic revolution, in a more or 
less developed country, must under such circumstances 
verge upon the proletarian revolution, that the former 
must pass into the latter. The history of the revolution 
in Russia has provided palpable proof that this 
thesis is correct and incontrovertible. It was not without 
reason that Lenin, as far back as 1905, on the eve of 
the first Russian revolution, in his pamphlet Two Tactics 
depicted the bourgeois-democratic revolution and 
the socialist revolution as two links in the same chain, 
as a single and integral picture of the sweep of the Russian 
revolution: 
³The proletariat must carry to completion the democratic revolution 
by allying to itself the mass of the peasantry in order to crush 
by force the resistance of the autocracy and to paralyse the instability 
of the bourgeoisie. The proletariat must accomplish the socialist revolution, 
by allying to itself the mass of the semi-proletarian elements 
of the population in order to crush by force the resistance of the 
bourgeoisie and to paralyse the instability of the peasantry and the 
petty bourgeoisie. Such are the tasks of the proletariat, which 
the new Iskra-ists present so narrowly in all their arguments 
and resolutions about the sweep of the revolution² (see Lenin, 
Vol. VIII, p. 96).

J. V. S T A L I N 104 
There is no need to mention other, later works of 
Lenin¹s, in which the idea of the bourgeois revolution 
passing into the proletarian revolution stands out in 
greater relief than in Two Tactics as one of the cornerstones 
of the Leninist theory of revolution. 
Some comrades believe, it seems; that Lenin 
arrived at this idea only in 1916, that up to that time 
he had thought that the revolution in Russia would remain 
within the bourgeois framework, that power, 
consequently, would pass from the hands of the organ 
of the dictatorship of the proletariat and peasantry into 
the hands of the bourgeoisie and not of the proletariat. 
It is said that this assertion has even penetrated into 
our Communist press. I must say that this assertion is 
absolutely wrong, that it is totally at variance with 
the facts. 
I might refer to Lenin¹s well-known speech at the 
Third Congress of the Party (1905),27 in which he defined 
the dictatorship of the proletariat and peasantry, i.e., 
the victory of the democratic revolution, not as the ³organisation 
of Œorder ¹² but as the ³organisation of 
war² (see Vol. VII, p. 264). 
Further, I might refer to Lenin¹s well-known articles 
³On the Provisional Government² (1905),27 where, outlining 
the prospects of the unfolding Russian revolution, 
he assigns to the Party the task of ³ensuring that the 
Russian revolution is not a movement of a few months, 
but a movement of many years, that it leads, not 
merely to slight concessions on the part of the powers 
that be, but to the complete overthrow of those powers²; 
where, enlarging further on these prospects and linking 
them with the revolution in Europe, he goes on to say:

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 105 
³And if we succeed in doing that, then . . . then the revolutionary 
conflagration will spread all over Europe; the European 
worker, languishing under bourgeois reaction, will rise in his 
turn and will show us Œhow it is done¹; then the revolutionary 
wave in Europe will sweep back again into Russia and will convert 
an epoch of a few revolutionary years into an epoch of several 
revolutionary decades . . .² (ibid., p. 191). 
I might further refer to a well-known article by Lenin 
published in November 1915, in which he writes: 
³The proletariat is fighting, and will fight valiantly, to capture 
power, for a republic, for the confiscation of the land . . . 
for the participation of the Œnon-proletarian masses of the people¹ 
in liberating bourgeois Russia from military-feudal Œimperialism¹ 
(=tsarism). And the proletariat will immediately* take advantage 
of this liberation of bourgeois Russia from tsarism, from the agrarian 
power of the landlords, not to aid the rich peasants in their 
struggle against the rural worker, but to bring about the socialist 
revolution in alliance with the proletarians of Europe² (see 
Vol. XVIII, p. 318). 
Finally, I might refer to the well-known passage in 
Lenin¹s pamphlet The Proletarian Revolution and the 
Renegade Kautsky, where, referring to the above-quoted 
passage in Two Tactics** on the sweep of the Russian 
revolution, he arrives at the following conclusion: 
³Things turned out just as we said they would. The 
course taken by the revolution confirmed the correctness of 
our reasoning. First, with the Œwhole¹ of the peasantry against 
the monarchy, against the landlords, against the mediaeval regime 
(and to that extent the revolution remains bourgeois, bourgeois- 
* My italics.‹J. St. 
** See this volume, p. 103.‹Ed.

J. V. S T A L I N 106 
democratic), Then, with the poor peasantry, with the semiproletarians, 
with all the exploited, against capitalism, including 
the rural rich, the kulaks, the profiteers, and to that extent 
the revolution becomes a socialist one. To attempt to raise an 
artificial Chinese Wall between the first and the second, to separate 
them by anything else than the degree of preparedness of the proletariat 
and the degree of its unity with the poor peasants, means 
monstrously to distort Marxism, to vulgarise i t , to replace it 
by liberalism² (see Vol. XXIII, p. 391). 
That is sufficient, I think. 
Very well, we may be told; but if that is the case, 
why did Lenin combat the idea of ³permanent (uninterrupted) 
revolution²? 
Because Lenin proposed that the revolutionary capacities 
of the peasantry be ³exhausted² and that the 
fullest use be made of their revolutionary energy 
for the complete liquidation of tsarism and for the 
transition to the proletarian revolution, whereas the 
adherents of ³permanent revolution² did not understand 
the important role of the peasantry in the Russian revolution, 
underestimated the strength of the revolutionary 
energy of the peasantry, underestimated the strength and 
ability of the Russian proletariat to lead the peasantry, 
and thereby hampered the work of emancipating the 
peasantry from the influence of the bourgeoisie, the work 
of rallying the peasantry around the proletariat. 
Because Lenin proposed that the revolution be 
crowned with the transfer of power to the proletariat, 
whereas the adherents of ³permanent² revolution 
wanted to begin at once with the establishment of 
the power of the proletariat, failing to realise that in 
so doing they were closing their eyes to such a ³minor

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 107 
detail² as the survivals of serfdom and were leaving out 
of account so important a force as the Russian peasantry, 
failing to understand that such a policy could only retard 
the winning of the peasantry over to the side of the proletariat. 
Consequently, Lenin fought the adherents of ³permanent² 
revolution, not over the question of uninterruptedness, 
for Lenin himself maintained the point of view 
of uninterrupted revolution, but because they underestimated 
the role of the peasantry, which is an enormous 
reserve of the proletariat, because they failed to understand 
the idea of the hegemony of the proletariat. 
The idea of ³permanent² revolution should not be 
regarded as a new idea. It was first advanced by Marx 
at the end of the forties in his well-known Address to the 
Communist League (1850). It is from this document that 
our ³permanentists² took the idea of uninterrupted revolution. 
It should be noted that in taking it from Marx 
our ³permanentists² altered it somewhat, and in altering 
it ³spoilt² it and made it unfit for practical use. 
The experienced hand of Lenin was needed to rectify 
this mistake, to take Marx¹s idea of uninterrupted revolution 
in its pure form and make it a cornerstone of his 
theory of revolution. 
Here is what Marx says in his Address about uninterrupted 
(permanent) revolution, after enumerating a 
number of revolutionary-democratic demands which he 
calls upon the Communists to win: 
³While the democratic petty bourgeois wish to bring the 
revolution to a conclusion as quickly as possible, and with the 
achievement, at most, of the above demands, it is our interest 
and our task to make the revolution permanent, until all more

J. V. S T A L I N 108 
or less possessing classes have been forced out of their position 
of dominance, until the proletariat has conquered state power, 
and the association of proletarians, not only in one country but 
in all the dominant countries of the world, has advanced so far 
that competition among the proletarians of these countries has 
ceased and that at least the decisive productive forces are concentrated 
in the hands of the proletarians.²28 
In other words: 
a) Marx did not at all propose to begin the revolution 
in the Germany of the fifties with the immediate 
establishment of proletarian power‹contrary to the plans 
of our Russian ³permanentists.² 
b) Marx proposed only that the revolution be crowned 
with the establishment of proletarian state power, by 
hurling, step by step, one section of the bourgeoisie after 
another from the heights of power, in order, after the 
attainment of power by the proletariat, to kindle the fire 
of revolution in every country‹and everything that 
Lenin taught and carried out in the course of our revolution 
in pursuit of his theory of the proletarian revolution 
under the conditions of imperialism was fully in 
line with that proposition. 
It follows, then, that our Russian ³permanentists² 
have not only underestimated the role of the peasantry 
in the Russian revolution and the importance of the 
idea of the hegemony of the proletariat, but have altered 
(for the worse) Marx¹s idea of ³permanent² revolution 
and made it unfit for practical use. 
That is why Lenin ridiculed the theory of our ³permanentists,² 
calling it ³original² and ³fine,² and accusing 
them of refusing to ³think why, for ten whole 
years, life has passed by this fine theory.² (Lenin¹s article

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 109 
was written in 1915, 10 years after the appearance of 
the theory of the ³permanentists² in Russia. See Vol. 
XVIII, p. 317.) 
That is why Lenin regarded this theory as a semi- 
Menshevik theory and said that it ³borrows from 
the Bolsheviks their call for a resolute revolutionary struggle 
by the proletariat and the conquest of political power 
by the latter, and from the Mensheviks the Œrepudiation¹ 
of the role of the peasantry.² (See Lenin¹s article 
³Two Lines of the Revolution,² ibid.). 
This, then, is the position in regard to Lenin¹s idea 
of the bourgeois-democratic revolution passing into the 
proletarian revolution, of utilising the bourgeois revolution 
for the ³immediate² transition to the proletarian 
revolution. 
To proceed. Formerly, the victory of the revolution 
in one country was considered impossible, on the assumption 
that it would require the combined action of the 
proletarians of all or at least of a majority of the advanced 
countries to achieve victory over the bourgeoisie. 
Now this point of view no longer fits in with the facts. 
Now we must proceed from the possibility of such a victory; 
for the uneven and spasmodic character of the development 
of the various capitalist countries under the 
conditions of imperialism, the development within imperialism 
of catastrophic contradictions leading to inevitable 
wars, the growth of the revolutionary movement 
in all countries of the world‹all this leads, not only to 
the possibility, but also to the necessity of the victory 
of the proletariat in individual countries. The history 
of the revolution in Russia is direct proof of this. At the 
same time, however, it must be borne in mind that the

J. V. S T A L I N 110 
overthrow of the bourgeoisie can be successfully accomplished 
only when certain absolutely necessary conditions 
exist, in the absence of which there can be even no question 
of the proletariat taking power. 
Here is what Lenin says about these conditions in 
his pamphlet ³Left-Wing² Communism: 
³The fundamental law of revolution, which has been confirmed 
by all revolutions, and particularly by all three Russian 
revolutions in the twentieth century, is as follows: It is not enough 
for revolution that the exploited and oppressed masses should 
understand the impossibility of living in the old way and demand 
changes; it is essential for revolution that the exploiters should 
not be able to live and rule in the old way. Only when the Œlower 
classes¹ do not want the old way, and when the Œupper classes¹ 
cannot carry on in the old way‹only then can revolution triumph. 
This truth may be expressed in other words: revolution is impossible 
without a nationwide crisis (affecting both the exploited and 
the exploiters).* It follows that for revolution it is essential, first, 
that a majority of the workers (or at least a majority of the class 
conscious, thinking, politically active workers) should fully understand 
that revolution is necessary and be ready to sacrifice 
their lives for it; secondly, that the ruling classes should be passing 
through a governmental crisis, which draws even the most 
backward masses into politics, . . . weakens the government and 
makes it possible for the revolutionaries to overthrow it rapidly² 
(see Vol. XXV, p. 222). 
But the overthrow of the power of the bourgeoisie 
and establishment of the power of the proletariat in one 
country does not yet mean that the complete victory of 
socialism has been ensured. After consolidating its power 
and leading the peasantry in its wake the proletariat of 
the victorious country can and must build a socialist 
* My italics.‹J. St.

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 111 
society. But does this mean that it will thereby achieve 
the complete and final victory of socialism, i.e., does 
it mean that with the forces of only one country it can 
finally consolidate socialism and fully guarantee that 
country against intervention and, consequently, also 
against restoration? No, it does not. For this the victory 
of the revolution in at least several countries is needed. 
Therefore, the development and support of revolution in 
other countries is an essential task of the victorious revolution. 
Therefore, the revolution which has been victorious 
in one country must regard itself not as a selfsufficient 
entity, but as an aid, as a means for hastening 
the victory of the proletariat in other countries. 
Lenin expressed this thought succinctly when he said 
that the task of the victorious revolution is to do ³the 
utmost possible in one country f o r the development, 
support and awakening of the revolution in all countries² 
(see Vol. XXIII, p. 385). 
These, in general, are the characteristic features of 
Lenin¹s theory of proletarian revolution. 
IV 
THE DICTATORSHIP OF THE PROLETARIAT 
From this theme I take three fundamental questions: 
a) the dictatorship of the proletariat as the instrument 
of the proletarian revolution; 
b) the dictatorship of the proletariat as the rule of 
the proletariat over the bourgeoisie; 
c) Soviet power as the state form of the dictatorship 
of the proletariat.

J. V. S T A L I N 112 
1) The dictatorship of the proletariat as the instrument 
of the proletarian revolution. The question of the proletarian 
dictatorship is above all a question of the main content 
of the proletarian revolution. The proletarian revolution, 
its movement, its sweep and its achievements acquire flesh 
and blood only through the dictatorship of the proletariat. 
The dictatorship of the proletariat is the instrument 
of the proletarian revolution, its organ, its most important 
mainstay, brought into being for the purpose of, 
firstly, crushing the resistance of the overthrown exploiters 
and consolidating the achievements of the proletarian 
revolution, and, secondly, carrying the proletarian revolution 
to its completion, carrying the revolution to the 
complete victory of socialism. The revolution can defeat 
the bourgeoisie, can overthrow its power, even without 
the dictatorship of the proletariat. But the revolution 
will be unable to crush the resistance of the bourgeoisie, 
to maintain its victory and to push forward to the final 
victory of socialism unless, at a certain stage in its 
development, it creates a special organ in the form 
of the dictatorship of the proletariat as its principal 
mainstay. 
³The fundamental question of every revolution is 
the question of power.² (Lenin.) Does this mean that all 
that is required is to assume power, to seize it? No, it 
does not. The seizure of power is only the beginning. 
For many reasons, the bourgeoisie that is overthrown 
in one country remains for a long time stronger than the 
proletariat which has overthrown it. Therefore, the whole 
point is to retain power, to consolidate it, to make it 
invincible. What is needed to attain this? To attain this 
it is necessary to carry out at least three main tasks that

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 113 
confront the dictatorship of the proletariat ³on the morrow² 
of victory: 
a) to break the resistance of the landlords and capitalists 
who have been overthrown and expropriated by the 
revolution, to liquidate every attempt on their part to 
restore the power of capital; 
b) to organise construction in such a way as to rally 
all the working people around the proletariat, and to 
carry on this work along the lines of preparing for the 
elimination, the abolition of classes; 
c) to arm the revolution, to organise the army of 
the revolution for the struggle against foreign enemies, 
for the struggle against imperialism. 
The dictatorship of the proletariat is needed to carry 
out, to fulfil these tasks. 
³The transition from capitalism to communism,² says Lenin, 
³represents an entire historical epoch. Until this epoch has terminated, 
the exploiters inevitably cherish the hope of restoration, 
and this hope is converted into attempts at restoration. And after 
their first serious defeat, the overthrown exploiters -- who had not 
expected their overthrow, never believed it possible, never conceded 
the thought of it‹throw themselves with energy grown tenfold, 
with furious passion and hatred grown a hundredfold, into 
the battle for the recovery of the Œparadise¹ of which they have 
been deprived, on behalf of their families, who had been leading 
such a sweet and easy life and whom now the Œcommon herd¹ is 
condemning to ruin and destitution (or to Œcommon¹ labour . . .). 
In the train of the capitalist exploiters follow the broad masses of 
the petty bourgeoisie, with regard to whom decades of historical 
experience of all countries testify that they vacillate and hesitate, 
one day marching behind the proletariat and the next day 
taking fright at the difficulties of the revolution; that they become 
panic stricken at the first defeat or semi-defeat of the workers, 
grow nervous, rush about, snivel, and run from one camp into 
the other² (see Vol. XXIII, p. 355).

J. V. S T A L I N 114 
The bourgeoisie has its grounds for making attempts 
at restoration, because for a long time after its overthrow 
it remains stronger than the proletariat which has 
overthrown it. 
³If the exploiters are defeated in one country only,² says 
Lenin, ³and this, of course, is the typical case, since a simultaneous 
revolution in a number of countries is a rare exception, 
they still remain stronger than the exploited² (ibid., p. 354). 
Wherein lies the strength of the overthrown bourgeoisie? 
Firstly, ³in the strength of international capital, in the 
strength and durability of the international connections of the 
bourgeoisie² (see Vol. XXV, p. 173). 
Secondly, in the fact that ³for a long time after the revolution 
the exploiters inevitably retain a number of great practical 
advantages: they still have money (it is impossible to abolish 
money all at once); some movable property‹often fairly considerable; 
they still have various connections, habits of organisation 
and management, knowledge of all the Œsecrets¹ (customs, 
methods, means and possibilities) of management, superior 
education, close connections with the higher technical personnel 
(who live and think like the bourgeoisie), incomparably greater 
experience in the art of war (this is very important), and so on, 
and so forth² (see Vol. XXIII, p. 354). 
Thirdly, ³in the force of habit, in the strength of small production. 
For, unfortunately, small production is still very, very 
widespread in the world, and small production engenders capitalism 
and the bourgeoisie continuously, daily, hourly, spontaneously, 
and on a mass scale² . . . for ³the abolition of classes 
means not only driving out the landlords and capitalists‹that 
we accomplished with comparative ease‹it also means abolishing 
the small commodity producers, and they cannot be driven out, 
or crushed; we must live in harmony with them, they can (and 
must) be remoulded and re-educated only by very prolonged, 
slow, cautious organisational work² (see Vol. XXV, pp. 173 and 189).

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 115 
That is why Lenin says: 
³The dictatorship of the proletariat is a most determined 
and most ruthless war waged by the new class against a more 
powerful enemy, the bourgeoisie, whose resistance is increased 
tenfold by its overthrow,² 
that ³the dictatorship of the proletariat is a stubborn struggle‹
bloody and bloodless, violent and peaceful, military and 
economic, educational and administrative‹against the forces 
and traditions of the old society² (ibid., pp. 173 and 190). 
It scarcely needs proof that there is not the slightest 
possibility of carrying out these tasks in a short 
period, of accomplishing all this in a few years. Therefore, 
the dictatorship of the proletariat, the transition 
from capitalism to communism, must not be regarded as 
a fleeting period of ³super-revolutionary² acts and decrees, 
but as an entire historical era, replete with civil 
wars and external conflicts, with persistent organisational 
work and economic construction, with advances and 
retreats, victories and defeats. This historical era is 
needed not only to create the economic and cultural prerequisites 
for the complete victory of socialism, but also 
to enable the proletariat, firstly, to educate itself and 
become steeled as a force capable of governing the country, 
and, secondly, to re-educate and remould the pettybourgeois 
strata along such lines as will assure the organisation 
of socialist production. 
³You will have to go through fifteen, twenty, fifty years 
of civil wars and international conflicts,² Marx said to the workers, 
³not only to change existing conditions, but also to change 
yourselves and to make yourselves capable of wielding political 
power² (see K. Marx and F. Engels, Works, Vol. VIII, p. 506).

J. V. S T A L I N 116 
Continuing and developing Marx¹s idea still further, 
Lenin wrote: 
³It will be necessary under the dictatorship of the proletariat 
to re-educate millions of peasants and small proprietors, hundreds 
of thousands of office employees, officials and bourgeois intellectuals, 
to subordinate them all to the proletarian state and to 
proletarian leadership, to overcome their bourgeois habits and 
traditions,² just as we must ³‹in a protracted struggle waged on 
the basis of the dictatorship of the proletariat‹re-educate the 
proletarians themselves, who do not abandon their petty-bourgeois 
prejudices at one stroke, by a miracle, at the bidding of 
the Virgin Mary, at the bidding of a slogan, resolution or decree, 
but only in the course of a long and difficult mass struggle 
against mass petty-bourgeois influences² (see Vol. XXV, pp. 248 
and 247). 
2) The dictatorship of the proletariat as the rule of 
the proletariat over the bourgeoisie. From the foregoing 
it is evident that the dictatorship of the proletariat is 
not a mere change of personalities in the government, 
a change of the ³cabinet,² etc., leaving the old economic 
and political order intact. The Mensheviks and opportunists 
of all countries, who fear dictatorship like fire and 
in their fright substitute the concept ³conquest of power² 
for the concept dictatorship, usually reduce the ³conquest 
of power² to a change of the ³cabinet,² to the accession 
to power of a new ministry made up of people 
like Scheidemann and Noske, MacDonald and Henderson. 
It is hardly necessary to explain that these and similar 
cabinet changes have nothing in common with the 
dictatorship of the proletariat, with the conquest of 
real power by the real proletariat. With the MacDonalds 
and Scheidemanns in power, while the old bourgeois 
order is allowed to remain, their so-called governments

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 117 
cannot be anything else than an apparatus serving the 
bourgeoisie, a screen to conceal the ulcers of imperialism, 
a weapon in the hands of the bourgeoisie against 
the revolutionary movement of the oppressed and exploited 
masses. Capital needs such governments as a 
screen when it finds it inconvenient, unprofitable, difficult 
to oppress and exploit the masses without the 
aid of a screen. Of course, the appearance of such governments 
is a symptom that ³over there² (i.e., in the 
capitalist camp) all is not quiet ³at the Shipka Pass²; 
nevertheless, governments of this kind inevitably remain 
governments of capital in disguise. The government of 
a MacDonald or a Scheidemann is as far removed from 
the conquest of power by the proletariat as the sky from 
the earth. The dictatorship of the proletariat is not a 
change of government, but a new state, with new organs 
of power, both central and local; it is the state of the 
proletariat, which has arisen on the ruins of the old 
state, the state of the bourgeoisie. 
The dictatorship of the proletariat arises not on 
the basis of the bourgeois order, but in the process of 
the breaking up of this order, after the overthrow of the 
bourgeoisie, in the process of the expropriation of the 
landlords and capitalists, in the process of the socialisation 
of the principal instruments and means of production, 
in the process of violent proletarian revolution. The dictatorship 
of the proletariat is a revolutionary power 
based on the use of force against the bourgeoisie. 
The state is a machine in the hands of the ruling class 
for suppressing the resistance of its class enemies. In 
this respect the dictatorship of the proletariat does not 
differ essentially from the dictatorship of any other class;

J. V. S T A L I N 118 
for the proletarian state is a machine for the suppression 
of the bourgeoisie. But there is one substantial difference. 
This difference consists in the fact that all hitherto 
existing class states have been dictatorships of an exploiting 
minority over the exploited majority, whereas the 
dictatorship of the proletariat is the dictatorship of the 
exploited majority over the exploiting minority. 
Briefly: the dictatorship of the proletariat is the rule‹ 
unrestricted by law and based on force‹of the proletariat 
over the bourgeoisie, a rule enjoying the sympathy and 
support of the labouring and exploited masses. (Lenin, The 
State and Revolution.) 
From this follow two main conclusions: 
First conclusion: The dictatorship of the proletariat 
cannot be ³complete² democracy, democracy for all, for 
the rich as well as for the poor; the dictatorship of the 
proletariat ³must be a state that is democratic in a new way 
(for* the proletarians and the non-propertied in general) 
and dictatorial in a new way (against* the bourgeoisie)² 
(see Vol. XXI, p. 393). The talk of Kautsky and Co. 
about universal equality, about ³pure² democracy, about 
³perfect² democracy, and the like, is a bour geois disguise 
of the indubitable fact that equality between the exploited 
and exploiters is impossible. The theory of ³pure² democracy 
is the theory of the upper stratum of the working 
class, which has been broken in and is being fed by the 
imperialist robbers. It was brought into being for the 
purpose of concealing the ulcers of capitalism, of embellishing 
imperialism and lending it moral strength in 
the struggle against the exploited masses. Under capi- 
* My italics.‹J. St.

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 119 
talism there are no real ³liberties² for the exploited, nor 
can there be, if for no other reason than that the premises, 
printing plants, paper supplies, etc., indispensable 
for the enjoyment of ³liberties² are the privilege of 
the exploiters. Under capitalism the exploited masses 
do not, nor can they ever, really participate in governing 
the country, if for no other reason than that, 
even under the most democratic regime, under conditions 
of capitalism, governments are not set up by the 
people but by the Rothschilds and Stinneses, the Rockefellers 
and Morgans. Democracy under capitalism is 
capitalist democracy, the democracy of the exploiting 
minority, based on the restriction of the rights of the 
exploited majority and directed against this majority. 
Only under the proletarian dictatorship are real liberties 
for the exploited and real participation of the 
proletarians and peasants in governing the country possible. 
Under the dictatorship of the proletariat, democracy 
is proletarian democracy, the democracy of the exploited 
majority, based on the restriction of the rights 
of the exploiting minority and directed against this 
minority. 
Second conclusion: The dictatorship of the proletariat 
can not arise as the result of the peaceful development 
of bourgeois society and of bourgeois democracy; it can 
arise only as the result of the smashing of the bourgeois 
state machine, the bourgeois army, the bourgeois bureaucratic 
apparatus, the bourgeois police. 
³The working class cannot simply lay hold of the ready-made 
state machinery, and wield it for its own purposes,² say Marx 
and Engels in a preface to the Communist Manifesto.‹The 
task of the proletarian revolution is ³. . . no longer, as before,

J. V. S T A L I N 120 
to transfer the bureaucratic-military machine from one hand to 
another, but to smash it and this is the preliminary condition 
for every real people¹s revolution on the continent,² says Marx 
in his letter to Kugelmann in 1871.29 
Marx¹s qualifying phrase about the continent gave 
the opportunists and Mensheviks of all countries a pretext 
for clamouring that Marx had thus conceded the possibility 
of the peaceful evolution of bourgeois democracy 
into a proletarian democracy, at least in certain countries 
outside the European continent (Britain, America). 
Marx did in fact concede that possibility, and he had 
good grounds for conceding it in regard to Britain and 
America in the seventies of the last century, when monopoly 
capitalism and imperialism did not yet exist, and 
when these countries, owing to the particular conditions 
of their development, had as yet no developed militarism 
and bureaucracy. That was the situation before the appearance 
of developed imperialism. But later, after a 
lapse of thirty or forty years, when the situation in these 
countries had radically changed, when imperialism had 
developed and had embraced all capitalist countries 
without exception, when militarism and bureaucracy 
had appeared in Britain and America also, when the 
particular conditions for peaceful development in Britain 
and America had disappeared‹then the qualification 
in regard to these countries necessarily could no 
longer hold good. 
³Today,² said Lenin, ³in 1917, in the epoch of the first great 
imperialist war, this qualification made by Marx is no longer valid. 
Both Britain and America, the biggest and the last representatives‹
in the whole world‹of Anglo-Saxon ¹liberty¹ in the 
sense that they had no militarism and bureaucracy, have

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 121 
completely sunk into the all-European filthy, bloody morass of 
bureaucratic-military institutions which subordinate everything 
to themselves and trample everything underfoot. Today, in Britain 
and in America, too, Œthe preliminary condition for every 
real people¹s revolution¹ is the s m a s h i n g, the d e s t r u ct 
i o n of the Œready-made state machinery¹ (perfected in those 
countries, between 1914 and 1917, up to the ŒEuropean¹ general 
imperialist standard)² (see Vol. XXI, p. 395). 
In other words, the law of violent proletarian revolution, 
the law of the smashing of the bourgeois state 
machine as a preliminary condition for such a revolution, 
is an inevitable law of the revolutionary movement in 
the imperialist countries of the world. 
Of course, in the remote future, if the proletariat is 
victorious in the principal capitalist countries, and if 
the present capitalist encirclement is replaced by a socialist 
encirclement, a ³peaceful² path of development 
is quite possible for certain capitalist countries, whose 
capitalists, in view of the ³unfavourable² international 
situation, will consider it expedient ³voluntarily² to 
make substantial concessions to the proletariat. But 
this supposition applies only to a remote and possible 
future. With regard to the immediate future, there is 
no ground whatsoever for this supposition. 
Therefore, Lenin is right in saying: 
³The proletarian revolution is impossible without the forcible 
destruction of the bourgeois state machine and the substitution 
for it of a new one² (see Vol. XXIII, p. 342). 
3) Soviet power as the state form of the dictatorship 
of the proletariat. The victory of the dictatorship of the 
proletariat signifies the suppression of the bourgeoisie, 
the smashing of the bourgeois state machine, and the

J. V. S T A L I N 
FROM MARX 
TO MAO 
 
NOT FOR 
COMMERCIAL 
DISTRIBUTION 
122 
substitution of proletarian democracy for bourgeois democracy. 
That is clear. But by means of what organisations 
can this colossal work be carried out? The old forms 
of organisation of the proletariat, which grew up on the 
basis of bourgeois parliamentarism, are inadequate for 
this work‹of that there can hardly be any doubt. What, 
then, are the new forms of organisation of the proletariat 
that are capable of serving as the gravediggers of the 
bourgeois state machine, that are capable not only of 
smashing this machine, not only of substituting proletarian 
democracy for bourgeois democracy, but also of becoming 
the foundation of the proletarian state power? 
This new form of organisation of the proletariat is 
the Soviets. 
Wherein lies the strength of the Soviets as compared 
with the old forms of organisation? 
In that the Soviets are the most all-embracing mass 
organisations of the proletariat, for they and they alone 
embrace all workers without exception. 
In that the Soviets are the only mass organisations 
which unite all the oppressed and exploited, workers 
and peasants, soldiers and sailors, and in which the vanguard 
of the masses, the proletariat, can, for this reason, 
most easily and most completely exercise its political 
leadership of the mass struggle. 
In that the Soviets are the most powerful organs of 
the revolutionary struggle of the masses, of the political 
actions of the masses, of the uprising of the masses 
‹organs capable of breaking the omnipotence of finance 
capital and its political appendages. 
In that the Soviets are the immediate organisations of 
the masses themselves, i.e., they are the most democratic

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 123 
and therefore the most authoritative organisations of 
the masses, which facilitate to the utmost their participation 
in the work of building up the new state and 
in its administration, and which bring into full play 
the revolutionary energy, initiative and creative abilities 
of the masses in the struggle for the destruction 
of the old order, in the struggle for the new, proletarian 
order. 
Soviet power is the union and constitution of the 
local Soviets into one common state organisation, into 
the state organisation of the proletariat as the vanguard 
of the oppressed and exploited masses and as the ruling 
class‹their union in the Republic of Soviets. 
The essence of Soviet power consists in the fact 
that these most all-embracing and most revolutionary 
mass organisations of precisely those classes that were 
oppressed by the capitalists and landlords are now the 
³permanent and sole basis of the whole power of the state, 
of the whole state apparatus²; that ³precisely those 
masses which even in the most democratic bourgeois 
republics,² while being equal in law, ³have in fact been 
prevented by thousands of tricks and devices from taking 
part in political life and from enjoying democratic 
rights and liberties, are now drawn unfailingly into constant 
and, more over, decisive participation in the democratic 
administration of the state²* (see Lenin, Vol. 
XXIV, p. 13). 
That is why Soviet power is a new form of state organisation 
different in principle from the old bourgeoisdemocratic 
and parliamentary form, a new type of state, 
* All italics mine.‹J. St.

J. V. S T A L I N 124 
adapted not to the task of exploiting and oppressing the 
labouring masses, but to the task of completely emancipating 
them from all oppression and exploitation, to 
the tasks facing the dictatorship of the proletariat. 
Lenin is right in saying that with the appearance 
of Soviet power ³the era of bourgeois-democratic parliamentarism 
has drawn to a close and a new chapter in 
world history‹the era of proletarian dictatorship‹has 
been opened.² 
Wherein lie the characteristic features of Soviet 
power? 
In that Soviet power is the most all-embracing and 
most democratic state organisation of all possible state 
organisations while classes continue to exist; for, being 
the arena of the bond and collaboration between the workers 
and the exploited peasants in their struggle against 
the exploiters, and basing itself in its work on this 
bond and on this collaboration, Soviet power is thus 
the power of the majority of the population over the 
minority, it is the state of the majority, the expression 
of its dictatorship. 
In that Soviet power is the most internationalist of 
all state organisations in class society; for, by destroying 
every kind of national oppression and resting on the collaboration 
of the labouring masses of the various nationalities, 
it facilitates the uniting of these masses into 
a single state union. 
In that Soviet power, by its very structure, facilitates 
the task of leading the oppressed and exploited 
masses by the vanguard of these masses‹by the proletariat, 
as the most united and most politically conscious 
core of the Soviets.

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 125 
³The experience of all revolutions and of all movements 
of the oppressed classes, the experience of 
the world socialist movement teaches us,² says Lenin, 
³that the proletariat alone is able to unite and lead the 
scattered and backward strata of the toiling and exploited 
population² (see Vol. XXIV, p. 14). The point 
is that the structure of Soviet power facilitates the 
practical application of the lessons drawn from this 
experience. 
In that Soviet power, by combining legislative and 
executive power in a single state organisation and replacing 
territorial electoral constituencies by industrial 
units, factories and mills thereby directly links the 
workers and the labouring masses in general with the 
apparatus of state administration, teaches them how 
to govern the country. 
In that Soviet power alone is capable of releasing 
the army from its subordination to bourgeois command 
and of converting it from the instrument of oppression 
of the people which it is under the bourgeois order, 
into an instrument for the liberation of the people from 
the yoke of the bourgeoisie, both native and foreign. 
In that ³the Soviet organisation of the state alone 
is capable of immediately and effectively smashing and 
finally destroying the old, i.e., the bourgeois, bureaucratic 
and judicial apparatus² (ibid.). 
In that the Soviet form of state alone, by drawing 
the mass organisations of the toilers and exploited into 
constant and unrestricted participation in state administration, 
is capable of preparing the ground for the withering 
away of the state, which is one of the basic elements 
of the future stateless communist society.

J. V. S T A L I N 126 
The Republic of Soviets is thus the political form, 
so long sought and finally discovered, within the framework 
of which the economic emancipation of the proletariat, 
the complete victory of socialism, must be accomplished. 
The Paris Commune was the embryo of this form; 
Soviet power i s i t s development and culmination. 
That is why Lenin says: 
³The Republic of Soviets of Workers¹, Soldiers¹, and Peasants¹ 
Deputies is not only the form of a higher type of democratic 
institution . . . , but is the only* form capable of ensuring the most 
painless transition to socialism² (see Vol. XXII, p. 131). 
V 
THE PEASANT QUESTION 
From this theme I take four questions: 
a) the presentation of the question; 
b) the peasantry during the bourgeois-democratic 
revolution; 
c) the peasantry during the proletarian revolution; 
d) the peasantry after the consolidation of Soviet 
power. 
1) The presentation of the question. Some think that 
the fundamental thing in Leninism is the peasant question, 
that the point of departure of Leninism is the question of 
the peasantry, of its role, its relative importance. This 
is absolutely wrong. The fundamental question of Leninism, 
its point of departure, is not the peasant question, 
but the question of the dictatorship of the proletariat, 
* My italics.‹J. St.

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 127 
of the conditions under which it can be achieved, of the 
conditions under which it can be consolidated. The peasant 
question, as the question of the ally of the proletariat 
in its struggle for power, is a derivative question. 
This circumstance, however, does not in the least 
deprive the peasant question of the serious and vital importance 
it unquestionably has for the proletarian revolution. 
It is known that the serious study of the peasant 
question in the ranks of Russian Marxists began precisely 
on the eve of the first revolution (1905), when the question 
of overthrowing tsarism and of realising the hegemony of 
the proletariat confronted the Party in all its magnitude, 
and when the question of the ally of the proletariat in 
the impending bourgeois revolution became of vital importance. 
It is also known that the peasant question in 
Russia assumed a still more urgent character during the 
proletarian revolution, when the question of the dictatorship 
of the proletariat, of achieving and maintaining 
it, led to the question of allies for the proletariat in the 
impending proletarian revolution. And this was natural. 
Those who are marching towards and preparing to assume 
power cannot but be interested in the question of who 
are their real allies. 
In this sense the peasant question is part of the general 
question of the dictatorship of the proletariat, 
and as such it is one of the most vital problems of 
Leninism. 
The attitude of indifference and sometimes even of 
outright aversion displayed by the parties of the Second 
International towards the peasant question is to be explained 
not only by the specific conditions of development 
in the West. It is to be explained primarily by the

J. V. S T A L I N 128 
fact that these parties do not believe in the proletarian 
dictatorship, that they fear revolution and have no intention 
of leading the proletariat to power. And those 
who are afraid of revolution, who do not intend to lead 
the proletarians to power, cannot be interested in the 
question of allies for the proletariat in the revolution‹ 
to them the question of allies is one of indifference, of 
no immediate significance. The ironical attitude of the 
heroes of the Second International towards the peasant 
question is regarded by them as a sign of good breeding, 
a sign of ³true² Marxism. As a matter of fact, there is 
not a grain of Marxism in this; for indifference towards 
so important a question as the peasant question on the 
eve of the proletarian revolution is the other side of 
the coin of repudiation of the dictatorship of the proletariat, 
it is an unmistakable sign of downright betrayal of 
Marxism. 
The question is as follows: Are the revolutionary 
potentialities latent in the peasantry by virtue of 
certain conditions of its existence already exhausted, 
or not; and if not, is there any hope, any basis, for utilising 
these potentialities for the proletarian revolution, 
for transforming the peasantry, the exploited majority 
of it, from the reserve of the bourgeoisie which it 
was during the bourgeois revolutions in the West and 
still is even now, into a reserve of the proletariat, into 
its ally? 
Leninism replies to this question in the affirmative, 
i.e., it recognises the existence of revolutionary capacities 
in the ranks of the majority of the peasantry, and 
the possibility of using these in the interests of the 
proletarian dictatorship.

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 129 
The history of the three revolutions in Russia fully 
corroborates the conclusions of Leninism on this score. 
Hence the practical conclusion that the toiling masses 
of the peasantry must be supported in their struggle 
against bondage and exploitation, in their struggle for 
deliverance from oppression and poverty. This does not 
mean, of course, that the proletariat must support every 
peasant movement. What we have in mind here is support 
for a movement or struggle of the peasantry which, 
directly or indirectly, facilitates the emancipation movement 
of the proletariat, which, in one way or another, 
brings grist to the mill of the proletarian revolution, 
and which helps to transform the peasantry into a 
reserve and ally of the working class. 
2) The peasantry during the bourgeois-democratic revolution. 
This period extends from the first Russian revolution 
(1905) to the second revolution (February 1917), 
inclusive. The characteristic feature of this period is the 
emancipation of the peasantry from the influence of the 
liberal bourgeoisie, the peasantry¹s desertion of the 
Cadets, its turn towards the proletariat, towards the 
Bolshevik Party. The history of this period is the history 
of the struggle between the Cadets (the liberal bourgeoisie) 
and the Bolsheviks (the proletariat) for the peasantry. 
The outcome of this struggle was decided by the Duma 
period; for the period of the four Dumas served as an 
object lesson to the peasantry, and this lesson brought 
home to the peasantry the fact that they would receive 
neither land nor liberty at the hands of the Cadets, that 
the tsar was wholly in favour of the landlords and that 
the Cadets were supporting the tsar, that the only force 
they could rely on for assistance was the urban workers,

J. V. S T A L I N 130 
the proletariat. The imperialist war merely confirmed 
the lessons of the Duma period and consummated the 
peasantry¹s desertion of the bourgeoisie, consummated 
the isolation of the liberal bourgeoisie; for the years of 
the war revealed the utter futility, the utter deceptiveness 
of all hopes of obtaining peace from the tsar and 
his bourgeois allies. Without the object lessons of the 
Duma period, the hegemony of the proletariat would 
have been impossible. 
That is how the alliance between the workers and 
the peasants in the bourgeois-democratic revolution took 
shape. That is how the hegemony (leadership) of the 
proletariat in the common struggle for the overthrow 
of tsarism took shape‹the hegemony which led to 
the February Revolution of 1917. 
The bourgeois revolutions in the West (Britain, 
France, Germany, Austria) took, as is well known, a 
different road. There, hegemony in the revolution belonged 
not to the proletariat, which by reason of its 
weakness did not and could not represent an independent 
political force, but to the liberal bourgeoisie. There the 
peasantry obtained its emancipation from feudal regimes, 
not at the hands of the proletariat, which was numerically 
weak and unorganised, but at the hands of the bourgeoisie. 
There the peasantry marched against the old order side 
by side with the liberal bourgeoisie. There the peasantry 
acted as the reserve of the bourgeoisie. There the revolution, 
in consequence of this, led to an enormous increase 
in the political weight of the bourgeoisie. 
In Russia, on the contrary, the bourgeois revolution 
produced quite opposite results. The revolution in Russia 
led not to the strengthening, but to the weakening of the

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 131 
bourgeoisie as a political force, not to an increase in its 
political reserves, but to the loss of its main reserve, to 
the loss of the peasantry. The bourgeois revolution in 
Russia brought to the forefront not the liberal bourgeoisie 
but the revolutionary proletariat, rallying around the 
latter the millions of the peasantry. 
Incidentally, this explains why the bourgeois revolution 
in Russia passed into a proletarian revolution in a 
comparatively short space of time. The hegemony of the 
proletariat was the embryo of, and the transitional stage 
to, the dictatorship of the proletariat. 
How is this peculiar phenomenon of the Russian revolution, 
which has no precedent in the history of the bourgeois 
revolutions of the West, to be explained? Whence 
this peculiarity? 
It is to be explained by the fact that the bourgeois 
revolution unfolded in Russia under more advanced conditions 
of class struggle than in the West; that the Russian 
proletariat had at that time already become an independent 
political force, whereas the liberal bourgeoisie, 
frightened by the revolutionary spirit of the proletariat, 
lost all semblance of revolutionary spirit (especially 
after the lessons of 1905) and turned towards an alliance 
with the tsar and the landlords against the revolution, 
against the workers and peasants. 
We should bear in mind the following circumstances, 
which determined the peculiar character of the Russian 
bourgeois revolution. 
a) The unprecedented concentration of Russian industry 
on the eve of the revolution. It is known, for 
instance, that in Russia 54 per cent of all the workers 
were employed in enterprises employing over 500 workers

J. V. S T A L I N 132 
each, whereas in so highly developed a country as the 
United States of America no more than 33 per cent of 
all the workers were employed in such enterprises. It 
scarcely needs proof that this circumstance alone, 
in view of the existence of a revolutionary party like 
the Party of the Bolsheviks, transformed the working 
class of Russia into an immense force in the political 
life of the country. 
b) The hideous forms of exploitation in the factories, 
coupled with the intolerable police regime of the tsarist 
henchmen‹a circumstance which transformed every 
important strike of the workers into an imposing 
political action and steeled the working class as a force 
that was revolutionary to the end. 
c) The political flabbiness of the Russian bourgeoisie, 
which after the Revolution of 1905 turned into 
servility to tsarism and downright counter-revolution‹ 
a fact to be explained not only by the revolutionary 
spirit of the Russian proletariat, which flung the Russian 
bourgeoisie into the embrace of tsarism, but also by 
the direct dependence of this bourgeoisie upon government 
contracts. 
d) The existence in the countryside of the most hideous 
and most intolerable survivals of serfdom, coupled 
with the unlimited power of the landlords‹a circumstance 
which threw the peasantry into the embrace of 
the revolution. 
e) Tsarism, which stifled everything that was alive, 
and whose tyranny aggravated the oppression of the capitalist 
and the landlord‹a circumstance which united the 
struggle of the workers and peasants into a single torrent 
of revolution.

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 133 
f) The imperialist war, which fused all these contradictions 
in the political life of Russia into a profound revolutionary 
crisis, and which lent the revolution tremendous 
striking force. 
To whom could the peasantry turn under these circumstances? 
From whom could it seek support against 
the unlimited power of the landlords, against the tyranny 
of the tsar against the devastating war which was ruining 
it? From the liberal bourgeoisie? But it was an enemy, 
as the long years of experience of all four Dumas had 
proved. From the Socialist-Revolutionaries? The Socialist-
Revolutionaries were ³better² than the Cadets, of 
course, and their programme was ³suitable,² almost a 
peasant programme; but what could the Socialist-Revolutionaries 
offer, considering that they thought of relying 
only on the peasants and were weak in the towns from 
which the enemy primarily drew its forces? Where was 
the new force which would stop at nothing either in town 
or country, which would boldly march in the front ranks 
to fight the tsar and the landlords, which would help 
the peasantry to extricate itself from bondage, from land 
hunger, from oppression, from war? Was there such 
a force in Russia at all? Yes, there was. It was the 
Russian proletariat, which had shown its strength, its 
ability to fight to the end, its boldness and revolutionary 
spirit, as far back as 1905. 
At any rate, there was no other such force; nor could 
any other be found anywhere. 
That is why the peasantry, when it turned its back 
on the Cadets and attached itself to the Socialist- 
Revolutionaries, at the same time came to realise the 
necessity of submitting to the leadership of such a

J. V. S T A L I N 134 
courageous leader of the revolution as the Russian 
proletariat. 
Such were the circumstances which determined the 
peculiar character of the Russian bourgeois revolution. 
3) The peasantry during the proletarian revolution. 
This period extends from the February Revolution of 
1917 to the October Revolution of 1917. This period is 
comparatively short, eight months in all; but from the 
point of view of the political enlightenment and revolutionary 
training of the masses these eight months can 
safely be put on a par with whole decades of ordinary 
constitutional development, for they were eight months of 
revolution. The characteristic feature of this period was 
the further revolutionisation of the peasantry, its disillusionment 
with the Socialist-Revolutionaries, the peasantry¹s 
desertion of the Socialist-Revolutionaries, its new 
turn towards a direct rally around the proletariat as the 
only consistently revolutionary force, capable of leading 
the country to peace. The history of this period is the 
history of the struggle between the Socialist-Revolutionaries 
(petty-bourgeois democracy) and the Bolsheviks 
(proletarian democracy) for the peasantry, to win over 
the majority of the peasantry. The outcome of this struggle 
was decided by the coalition period, the Kerensky period, 
the refusal of the Socialist-Revolutionaries and the 
Mensheviks to confiscate the landlords¹ land, the fight 
of the Socialist-Revolutionaries and the Mensheviks to 
continue the war, the June offensive at the front, the 
introduction of capital punishment for soldiers, the Kornilov 
revolt. 
Whereas before, in the preceding period, the basic 
question of the revolution had been the overthrow of the

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 135 
tsar and of the power of the landlords, now, in the period 
following the February Revolution, when there was no 
longer any tsar, and when the interminable war had 
exhausted the economy of the country and utterly 
ruined the peasantry, the question of liquidating the war 
became the main problem of the revolution. The centre 
of gravity had manifestly shifted from purely internal 
questions to the main question‹the war. ³End the 
war,² ³Let¹s get out of the war²‹such was the general 
outcry of the war-weary nation and primarily of the 
peasantry. 
But in order to get out of the war it was necessary to 
overthrow the Provisional Government, it was necessary 
to overthrow the power of the bourgeoisie, it was necessary 
to overthrow the power of the Socialist-Revolutionaries 
and the Mensheviks, for they, and they alone, were 
dragging out the war to a ³victorious finish.² Practically, 
there was no way of getting out of the war except by overthrowing 
the bourgeoisie. 
This was a new revolution, a proletarian revolution, 
for it ousted from power the last group of the imperialist 
bourgeoisie, its extreme Left wing, the Socialist-Revolutionary 
Party and the Mensheviks, in order to set up a 
new, proletarian power, the power of the Soviets, in order 
to put in power the party of the revolutionary proletariat, 
the Bolshevik Party, the party of the revolutionary struggle 
against the imperialist war and for a democratic 
peace. The majority of the peasantry supported the 
struggle of the workers for peace, for the power of the 
Soviets. 
There was no other way out for the peasantry. Nor 
could there be any other way out.

J. V. S T A L I N 136 
Thus, the Kerensky period was a great object lesson 
for the toiling masses of the peasantry; for it showed 
clearly that with the Socialist-Revolutionaries and 
the Mensheviks in power the country would not extricate 
itself from the war, and the peasants would never get 
either land or liberty; that the Mensheviks and the Socialist-
Revolutionaries differed from the Cadets only in 
their honeyed phrases and false promises, while they actually 
pursued the same imperialist, Cadet policy; that 
the only power that could lead the country on to the proper 
road was the power of the Soviets. The further prolongation 
of the war merely confirmed the truth of this 
lesson, spurred on the revolution, and drove millions of 
peasants and soldiers to rally directly around the proletarian 
revolution. The isolation of the Socialist-Revolutionaries 
and the Mensheviks became an incontrovertible fact. 
Without the object lessons of the coalition period the 
dictatorship of the proletariat would have been impossible. 
Such were the circumstances which facilitated the 
process of the bourgeois revolution passing into the proletarian 
revolution. 
That is how the dictatorship of the proletariat took 
shape in Russia. 
4) The peasantry after the consolidation of Soviet 
power. Whereas before, in the first period of the revolution, 
the main objective was the overthrow of tsarism, 
and later, after the February Revolution, the primary 
objective was to get out of the imperialist war by overthrowing 
the bourgeoisie, now, after the liquidation of 
the civil war and the consolidation of Soviet power, 
questions of economic construction came to the forefront.

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 137 
Strengthen and develop the nationalised industry; for this 
purpose link up industry with peasant economy through 
state-regulated trade; replace the surplus-appropriation 
system by the tax in kind so as, later on, by gradually 
lowering the tax in kind, to reduce matters to the exchange 
of products of industry for the products of peasant farming; 
revive trade and develop the co-operatives, drawing 
into them the vast masses of the peasantry‹this is how 
Lenin outlined the immediate tasks of economic construction 
on the way to building the foundations of 
socialist economy. 
It is said that this task may prove beyond the strength 
of a peasant country like Russia. Some sceptics even say 
that it is simply utopian, impossible; for the peasantry 
is a peasantry‹it consists of small producers, and therefore 
cannot be of use in organising the foundations of 
socialist production. 
But the sceptics are mistaken; for they fail to take into 
account certain circumstances which in the present case 
are of decisive significance. Let us examine the most important 
of these: 
Firstly. The peasantry in the Soviet Union must not 
be confused with the peasantry in the West. A peasantry 
that has been schooled in three revolutions, that fought 
against the tsar and the power of the bourgeoisie side by 
side with the proletariat and under the leadership of the 
proletariat, a peasantry that has received land and peace 
at the hands of the proletarian revolution and by reason 
of this has become the reserve of the proletariat‹such a 
peasantry cannot but be different from a peasantry which 
during the bourgeois revolution fought under the leadership 
of the liberal bourgeoisie, which received land at

J. V. S T A L I N 138 
the hands of that bourgeoisie, and in view of this became 
the reserve of the bourgeoisie. It scarcely needs proof 
that the Soviet peasantry, which has learnt to appreciate 
its political friendship and political collaboration 
with the proletariat and which owes its freedom to this 
friendship and collaboration, cannot but represent exceptionally 
favourable material for economic collaboration 
with the proletariat. 
Engels said that ³the conquest of political power by 
the Socialist Party has become a matter of the not too 
distant future,² that ³in order to conquer political power 
this party must first go from the towns to the country, 
must become a power in the countryside.² (See Engels, 
The Peasant Question, 1922 ed.30). He wrote this in the 
nineties of the last century, having in mind the Western 
peasantry. Does it need proof that the Russian Communists, 
after accomplishing an enormous amount of work 
in this field in the course of three revolutions, have 
already succeeded in gaining in the countryside an influence 
and backing the like of which our Western comrades 
dare not even dream of? How can it be denied that 
this circumstance must decidedly facilitate the organisation 
of economic collaboration between the working class 
and the peasantry of Russia? 
The sceptics maintain that the small peasants are a 
factor that is incompatible with socialist construction. 
But listen to what Engels says about the small peasants 
of the West: 
³We are decidedly on the side of the small peasant; we shall 
do everything at all permissible to make his lot more bearable, 
to facilitate his transition to the co-operative should he decide 
to do so, and even to make it possible for him to remain on his

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 139 
small holding for a protracted length of time to think the matter 
over, should he still be unable to bring himself to this decision. 
We do this not only because we consider the small peasant who 
does his own work as virtually belonging to us, but also in the 
direct interest of the Party. The greater the number of peasants 
whom we can save from being actually hurled down into the proletariat, 
whom we can win to our side while they are still peasants, 
the more quickly and easily the social transformation will be accomplished. 
It will serve us nought to wait with this transformation 
until capitalist production has developed everywhere to its 
utmost consequences, until the last small handicraftsman and the 
last small peasant have fallen victim to capitalist large-scale 
production. The material sacrifice to be made for this purpose 
in the interest of the peasants and to be defrayed out of 
public funds can, from the point of view of capitalist economy, 
be viewed only as money thrown away, but it is nevertheless 
an excellent investment because it will effect a perhaps tenfold 
saving in the cost of the social reorganisation in general. In this 
sense we can, therefore, afford to deal very liberally with the 
peasants² (ibid.). 
That is what Engels said, having in mind the Western 
peasantry. But is it not clear that what Engels said can 
nowhere be realised so easily and so completely as in 
the land of the dictatorship of the proletariat? Is it not 
clear that only in Soviet Russia is it possible at once 
and to the fullest extent for ³the small peasant who does 
his own work² to come over to our side, for the ³material 
sacrifice² necessary for this to be made, and 
for the necessary ³liberality towards the peasants² to be 
displayed? Is it not clear that these and similar measures 
for the benefit of the peasantry are already being carried 
out in Russia? How can it be denied that this circumstance, 
in its turn, must facilitate and advance the work 
of economic construction in the land of the Soviets?

J. V. S T A L I N 140 
Secondly. Agriculture in Russia must not be confused 
with agriculture in the West. There, agriculture is developing 
along the ordinary lines of capitalism, under 
conditions of profound differentiation among the peasantry, 
with large landed estates and private capitalist latifundia 
at one extreme and pauperism, destitution and 
wage slavery at the other. Owing to this, disintegration 
and decay are quite natural there. Not so in Russia. 
Here agriculture cannot develop along such a path, if 
for no other reason than that the existence of Soviet power 
and the nationalisation of the principal instruments 
and means of production preclude such a development. 
In Russia the development of agriculture must proceed 
along a different path, along the path of organising millions 
of small and middle peasants in co-operatives, along 
the path of developing in the countryside a mass co-operative 
movement supported by the state by means of 
preferential credits. Lenin rightly pointed out in his 
articles on co-operation that the development of agriculture 
in our country must proceed along a new path, along 
the path of drawing the majority of the peasants into 
socialist construction through the co-operatives, along 
the path of gradually introducing into agriculture the 
principles of collectivism, first in the sphere of marketing 
and later in the sphere of production of agricultural 
products. 
Of extreme interest in this respect are several new phenomena 
observed in the countryside in connection with 
the work of the agricultural co-operatives. It is well 
known that new, large organisations have sprung up within 
the Selskosoyuz,31 in different branches of agriculture, 
such as production of flax, potatoes, butter, etc., which

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 141 
have a great future before them. Of these, the Flax 
Centre, for instance, unites a whole network of peasant 
flax growers¹ associations. The Flax Centre supplies the 
peasants with seeds and implements; then it buys all the 
flax produced by these peasants, disposes of it on the 
market on a large scale, guarantees the peasants a share 
in the profits, and in this way links peasant economy 
with state industry through the Selskosoyuz. What shall 
we call this form of organisation of production? In my 
opinion, it is the domestic system of large-scale statesocialist 
production in the sphere of agriculture. In 
speaking of the domestic system of state-socialist production 
I do so by analogy with the domestic system under 
capitalism, let us say, in the textile industry, where the 
handicraftsmen received their raw material and tools 
from the capitalist and turned over to him the entire 
product of their labour, thus being in fact semi-wage 
earners working in their own homes. This is one of numerous 
indices showing the path along which our agriculture 
must develop. There is no need to mention here 
similar indices in other branches of agriculture. 
It scarcely needs proof that the vast majority of 
the peasantry will eagerly take this new path of development, 
rejecting the path of private capitalist latifundia 
and wage slavery, the path of destitution 
and ruin. 
Here is what Lenin says about the path of development 
of our agriculture: 
³State power over all large-scale means of production, state 
power in the hands of the proletariat, the alliance of this proletariat 
with the many millions of small and very small peasants, 
the assured leadership of the peasantry by the proletariat,

J. V. S T A L I N 142 
etc.‹is not this all that is necessary for building a complete 
socialist society from the co-operatives, from the co-operatives 
alone, which we formerly looked down upon as huckstering 
and which from a certain aspect we have the right to look down 
upon as such now, under NEP? Is this not all that is necessary 
for building a complete socialist society? This is not yet 
the building of socialist society, but it is all that is necessary 
and sufficient for this building² (see Vol. XXVII, p. 392). 
Further on, speaking of the necessity of giving financial 
and other assistance to the co-operatives, as a 
³new principle of organising the population² and a new 
³social system² under the dictatorship of the proletariat, 
Lenin continues: 
³Every social system arises only with the financial assistance 
of a definite class. There is no need to mention the hundreds and 
hundreds of millions of rubles that the birth of Œfree¹ capitalism 
cost. Now we must realise, and apply in our practical work, the 
fact that the social system which we must now give more than 
usual assistance is the co-operative system. But it must be assisted 
in the real sense of the word, i.e., it will not be enough to interpret 
assistance to mean assistance for any kind of co-operative trade; 
by assistance we must mean assistance for co-operative trade in 
which really large masses of the population really take part² (ibid., 
p. 393). 
What do all these facts prove? 
That the sceptics are wrong. 
That Leninism is right in regarding the masses of 
labouring peasants as the reserve of the proletariat. 
That the proletariat in power can and must use this 
reserve in order to link industry with agriculture, to 
advance socialist construction, and to provide for the 
dictatorship of the proletariat that necessary foundation 
without which the transition to socialist economy is 
impossible.

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 143 
VI 
THE NATIONAL QUESTION 
From this theme I take two main questions: 
a) the presentation of the question; 
b) the liberation movement of the oppressed peoples 
and the proletarian revolution. 
1) The presentation of the question. During the last 
two decades the national question has undergone a number 
of very important changes. The national question 
in the period of the Second International and the national 
question in the period of Leninism are far from being 
the same thing. They differ profoundly from each other, 
not only in their scope, but also in their intrinsic 
character. 
Formerly, the national question was usually confined 
to a narrow circle of questions, concerning, primarily, 
³civilised² nationalities. The Irish, the Hungarians, the 
Poles, the Finns, the Serbs, and several other European 
nationalities‹that was the circle of unequal peoples 
in whose destinies the leaders of the Second International 
were interested. The scores and hundreds of millions 
of Asian and African peoples who are suffering national 
oppression in its most savage and cruel form usually 
remained outside of their field of vision. They hesitated 
to put white and black, ³civilised² and ³uncivilised² 
on the same plane. Two or three meaningless, lukewarm 
resolutions, which carefully evaded the question of the liberation 
of the colonies‹that was all the leaders of the 
Second International could boast of. Now we can say that 
this duplicity and half-heartedness in dealing with the 
national question has been brought to an end. Leninism

J. V. S T A L I N 144 
laid bare this crying incongruity, broke down the wall 
between whites and blacks, between Europeans and Asiatics, 
between the ³civilised² and ³uncivilised² slaves 
of imperialism, and thus linked the national question 
with the question of the colonies. The national question 
was thereby transformed from a particular and internal 
state problem into a general and international problem, 
into a world problem of the liberation of the oppressed 
peoples in the dependent countries and colonies from the 
yoke of imperialism. 
Formerly, the principle of self-determination of nations 
was usually misinterpreted, and not infrequently 
it was narrowed down to the idea of the right of nations 
to autonomy. Certain leaders of the Second International 
even went so far as to turn the right to self-determination 
into the right to cultural autonomy, i.e., the 
right of oppressed nations to have their own cultural 
institutions, leaving all political power in the hands 
of the ruling nation. As a consequence, the idea of selfdetermination 
stood in danger of being transformed from 
an instrument for combating annexations into an instrument 
for justifying them. Now we can say that this confusion 
has been cleared up. Leninism broadened the conception 
of self-determination, interpreting it as the right 
of the oppressed peoples of the dependent countries and 
colonies to complete secession, as the right of nations 
to independent existence as states. This precluded the 
possibility of justifying annexations by interpreting the 
right to self-determination as the right to autonomy. 
Thus, the principle of self-determination itself was transformed 
from an instrument for deceiving the masses, 
which it undoubtedly was in the hands of the social

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 145 
chauvinists during the imperialist war, into an instrument 
for exposing all imperialist aspirations and chauvinist 
machinations, into an instrument for the political 
education of the masses in the spirit of internationalism. 
Formerly, the question of the oppressed nations was 
usually regarded as purely a juridical question. Solemn 
proclamations about ³national equality of rights,² 
innumerable declarations about the ³equality of nations² 
‹that was the stock in trade of the parties of the Second 
International, which glossed over the fact that ³equality 
of nations² under imperialism, where one group of nations 
(a minority) lives by exploiting another group of 
nations, is sheer mockery of the oppressed nations. Now 
we can say that this bourgeois-juridical point of view 
on the national question has been exposed. Leninism 
brought the national question down from the lofty heights 
of high-sounding declarations to solid ground, and declared 
that pronouncements about the ³equality of 
nations² not backed by the direct support of the proletarian 
parties for the liberation struggle of the oppressed nations 
are meaningless and false. In this way the question of 
the oppressed nations became one of supporting the 
oppressed nations, of rendering real and continuous assistance 
to them in their struggle against imperialism for 
real equality of nations, for their independent existence 
as states. 
Formerly, the national question was regarded from a 
reformist point of view, as an independent question having 
no connection with the general question of the power 
of capital, of the overthrow of imperialism, of the proletarian 
revolution. It was tacitly assumed that the victory

J. V. S T A L I N 146 
of the proletariat in Europe was possible without a direct 
alliance with the liberation movement in the colonies, 
that the national-colonial question could be solved 
on the quiet, ³of its own accord,² off the highway of 
the proletarian revolution, without a revolutionary struggle 
against imperialism. Now we can say that this antirevolutionary 
point of view has been exposed. Leninism 
has proved, and the imperialist war and the revolution 
in Russia have confirmed, that the national question can 
be solved only in connection with and on the basis of 
the proletarian revolution, and that the road to victory 
of the revolution in the West lies through the revolutionary 
alliance with the liberation movement of the colonies 
and dependent countries against imperialism. The 
national question is a part of the general question of 
the proletarian revolution, a part of the question of the 
dictatorship of the proletariat. 
The question is as follows: Are the revolutionary 
potentialities latent in the revolutionary liberation 
movement of the oppressed countries already exhausted, 
or not; and if not, is there any hope, any basis, for 
utilising these potentialities for the proletarian revolution, 
for transforming the dependent and colonial countries 
from a reserve of the imperialist bourgeoisie into a 
reserve of the revolutionary proletariat, into an ally 
of the latter? 
Leninism replies to this question in the affirmative, 
i.e., it recognises the existence of revolutionary capacities 
in the national liberation movement of the oppressed 
countries, and the possibility of using these for overthrowing 
the common enemy, for overthrowing imperialism. 
The mechanics of the development of impe

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 147 
rialism, the imperialist war and the revolution in Russia 
wholly confirm the conclusions of Leninism on this 
score. 
Hence the necessity for the proletariat of the ³dominant² 
nations to support‹resolutely and actively to 
support‹the national liberation movement of the oppressed 
and dependent peoples. 
This does not mean, of course, that the proletariat must 
support every national movement, everywhere and always, 
in every individual concrete case. It means that 
support must be given to such national movements as 
tend to weaken, to overthrow imperialism, and not to 
strengthen and preserve it. Cases occur when the national 
movements in certain oppressed countries come into conflict 
with the interests of the development of the proletarian 
movement. In such cases support is, of course, 
entirely out of the question. The question of the rights 
of nations is not an isolated, self-sufficient question; 
it is a part of the general problem of the proletarian 
revolution, subordinate to the whole, and must be considered 
from the point of view of the whole. In the forties 
of the last century Marx supported the national movement 
of the Poles and the Hungarians and was opposed to the national 
movement of the Czechs and the South Slavs. 
Why? Because the Czechs and the South Slavs were 
then ³reactionary nations,² ³Russian outposts² in 
Europe, outposts of absolutism; whereas the Poles and the 
Hungarians were ³revolutionary nations,² fighting against 
absolutism. Because support of the national movement 
of the Czechs and the South Slavs was at that time equivalent 
to indirect support for tsarism, the most dangerous 
enemy of the revolutionary movement in Europe.

J. V. S T A L I N 148 
³The various demands of democracy,² writes Lenin, ³including 
self-determination, are not an absolute, but a small part 
of the general democratic (now: general socialist) world movement. 
In individual concrete cases, the part may contradict the whole; 
if so, it must be rejected² (See Vol. XIX, pp. 257-58). 
This is the position in regard to the question of 
particular national movements, of the possible reactionary 
character of these movements‹if, of course, they 
are appraised not from the formal point of view, not 
from the point of view of abstract rights, but concretely, 
from the point of view of the interests of the revolutionary 
movement. 
The same must be said of the revolutionary character 
of national movements in general. The unquestionably 
revolutionary character of the vast majority of national 
movements is as relative and peculiar as is the 
possible reactionary character of certain particular 
national movements. The revolutionary character of a 
national movement under the conditions of imperialist 
oppression does not necessarily presuppose the existence 
of proletarian elements in the movement, the existence 
of a revolutionary or a republican programme of the movement, 
the existence of a democratic basis of the movement. 
The struggle that the Emir of Afghanistan is 
waging for the independence of Afghanistan is objectively 
a revolutionary struggle, despite the monarchist views 
of the Emir and his associates, for it weakens, disintegrates 
and undermines imperialism; whereas the struggle 
waged by such ³desperate² democrats and ³socialists,² 
³revolutionaries² and republicans as, for example, Kerensky 
and Tsereteli, Renaudel and Scheidemann, Chernov 
and Dan, Henderson and Clynes, during the imperial

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 149 
ist war was a reactionary struggle, for its result was the 
embellishment, the strengthening, the victory, of imperialism. 
For the same reasons, the struggle that the Egyptian 
merchants and bourgeois intellectuals are waging for 
the independence of Egypt is objectively a revolutionary 
struggle, despite the bourgeois origin and bourgeois title 
of the leaders of the Egyptian national movement, despite 
the fact that they are opposed to socialism; whereas 
the struggle that the British ³Labour² government is 
waging to preserve Egypt¹s dependent position is for the 
same reasons a reactionary struggle, despite the proletarian 
origin and the proletarian title of the members of 
that government, despite the fact that they are ³for² 
socialism. There is no need to mention the national movement 
in other, larger, colonial and dependent countries, 
such as India and China, every step of which along the 
road to liberation, even if it runs counter to the demands 
of formal democracy, is a steam-hammer blow 
at imperialism, i.e., is undoubtedly a revolutionary 
step. 
Lenin was right in saying that the national movement 
of the oppressed countries should be appraised not 
from the point of view of formal democracy, but from 
the point of view of the actual results, as shown by the 
general balance sheet of the struggle against imperialism, 
that is to say, ³not in isolation, but on a world scale² 
(see Vol. XIX, p. 257). 
2) The liberation movement of the oppressed peoples 
and the proletarian revolution. In solving the national 
question Leninism proceeds from the following theses: 
a) The world is divided into two camps: the camp 
of a handful of civilised nations, which possess finance

J. V. S T A L I N 150 
capital and exploit the vast majority of the population 
of the globe; and the camp of the oppressed and exploited 
peoples in the colonies and dependent countries, 
which constitute that majority; 
b) The colonies and dependent countries, oppressed 
and exploited by finance capital, constitute a vast reserve 
and a very important source of strength for imperialism; 
c) The revolutionary struggle of the oppressed peoples 
in the dependent and colonial countries against imperialism 
is the only road that leads to their emancipation 
from oppression and exploitation; 
d) The most important colonial and dependent countries 
have already taken the path of the national liberation 
movement, which cannot but lead to the crisis of 
world capitalism; 
e) The interests of the proletarian movement in the 
developed countries and of the national liberation 
movement in the colonies call for the union of these 
two forms of the revolutionary movement into a common 
front against the common enemy, against imperialism; 
f) The victory of the working class in the developed 
countries and the liberation of the oppressed peoples 
from the yoke of imperialism are impossible without 
the formation and consolidation of a common revolutionary 
front; 
g) The formation of a common revolutionary front 
is impossible unless the proletariat of the oppressor 
nations renders direct and determined support to 
the liberation movement of the oppressed peoples 
against the imperialism of its ³own country,² for ³no

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 151 
nation can be free if it oppresses other nations² 
(Engels); 
h) This support implies the upholding, defence and 
implementation of the slogan of the right of nations to 
secession, to independent existence as states; 
i) Unless this slogan is implemented, the union and 
collaboration of nations within a single world economic 
system, which is the material basis for the victory of 
world socialism, cannot be brought about; 
j) This union can only be voluntary, arising on the 
basis of mutual confidence and fraternal relations 
among peoples. 
Hence the two sides, the two tendencies in the national 
question: the tendency towards political emancipation 
from the shackles of imperialism and towards the formation 
of an independent national state‹a tendency 
which arose as a consequence of imperialist oppression 
and colonial exploitation; and the tendency towards 
closer economic relations among nations, which arose 
as a result of the formation of a world market and a 
world economic system. 
³Developing capitalism,² says Lenin, ³knows two historical 
tendencies in the national question. First: the awakening of 
national life and national movements, struggle against all national 
oppression, creation of national states. Second: development 
and acceleration of all kinds of intercourse between 
nations, breakdown of national barriers, creation of the international 
unity of capital, of economic life in general, of politics, 
science, etc. 
³Both tendencies are a world-wide law of capitalism. The 
first predominates at the beginning of its development, the second 
characterises mature capitalism that is moving towards its transformation 
into socialist society² (see Vol. XVII, pp. 139-40).

J. V. S T A L I N 152 
For imperialism these two tendencies represent irreconcilable 
contradictions; because imperialism cannot exist 
without exploiting colonies and forcibly retaining them 
within the framework of the ³integral whole²; because 
imperialism can bring nations together only by means 
of annexations and colonial conquest, without which 
imperialism is, generally speaking, inconceivable. 
For communism, on the contrary, these tendencies 
are but two sides of a single cause‹the cause of the emancipation 
of the oppressed peoples from the yoke of imperialism; 
because communism knows that the union of peoples 
in a single world economic system is possible only 
on the basis of mutual confidence and voluntary agreement, 
and that the road to the formation of a voluntary 
union of peoples lies through the separation of the colonies 
from the ³integral² imperialist ³whole,² through 
the transformation of the colonies into independent 
states. 
Hence the necessity for a stubborn, continuous and 
determined struggle against the dominant-nation chauvinism 
of the ³Socialists² of the ruling nations (Britain, 
France, America, Italy, Japan, etc.), who do not want to 
fight their imperialist governments, who do not want 
to support the struggle of the oppressed peoples in 
³their² colonies for emancipation from oppression, for 
secession. 
Without such a struggle the education of the working 
class of the ruling nations in the spirit of true internationalism, 
in the spirit of closer relations with the toiling 
masses of the dependent countries and colonies, in the 
spirit of real preparation for the proletarian revolution, 
is inconceivable. The revolution would not have been

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 153 
victorious in Russia, and Kolchak and Denikin would 
not have been crushed, had not the Russian proletariat 
enjoyed the sympathy and support of the oppressed peoples 
of the former Russian Empire. But to win the sympathy 
and support of these peoples it had first of all to 
break the fetters of Russian imperialism and free these 
peoples from the yoke of national oppression. 
Without this it would have been impossible to consolidate 
Soviet power, to implant real internationalism and 
to create that remarkable organisation for the collaboration 
of peoples which is called the Union of Soviet 
Socialist Republics, and which is the living prototype 
of the future union of peoples in a single world economic 
system. 
Hence the necessity of fighting against the national 
isolationism, narrowness and aloofness of the Socialists 
in the oppressed countries, who do not want to rise above 
their national parochialism and who do not understand 
the connection between the liberation movement 
in their own countries and the proletarian movement in 
the ruling countries. 
Without such a struggle it is inconceivable that the 
proletariat of the oppressed nations can maintain an 
independent policy and its class solidarity with the proletariat 
of the ruling countries in the fight for the overthrow 
of the common enemy, in the fight for the overthrow 
of imperialism. 
Without such a struggle, internationalism would be 
impossible. 
Such is the way in which the toiling masses of the 
dominant and the oppressed nations must be educated 
in the spirit of revolutionary internationalism.

J. V. S T A L I N 154 
Here is what Lenin says about this twofold task of 
communism in educating the workers in the spirit of 
internationalism: 
³Can such education . . . be concretely identical in great, 
oppressing nations and in small, oppressed nations, in annexing 
nations and in annexed nations? 
³Obviously not. The way to the one goal‹to complete equality, 
to the closest relations and the subsequent amalgamation 
of all nations‹obviously proceeds here by different routes in 
each concrete case; in the same way, let us say, as the route to 
a point in the middle of a given page lies towards the left from 
one edge and towards the right from the opposite edge. If a Social- 
Democrat belonging to a great, oppressing, annexing nation, 
while advocating the amalgamation of nations in general, were 
to forget even for one moment that Œhis¹ Nicholas II, Œhis¹ Wilhelm, 
George, Poincaré, etc., also stands for amalgamation with 
small nations (by means of annexations)‹Nicholas II being for 
Œamalgamation¹ with Galicia, Wilhelm II for Œamalgamation¹ 
with Belgium, etc.‹such a Social-Democrat would be a ridiculous 
doctrinaire in theory and an abettor of imperialism in practice. 
³The weight of emphasis in the internationalist education 
of the workers in the oppressing countries must necessarily consist 
in their advocating and upholding freedom of secession for 
oppressed countries. Without this there can be no internationalism. 
It is our right and duty to treat every Social-Democrat 
of an oppressing nation who fails to conduct such propaganda as 
an imperialist and a scoundrel. This is an absolute demand, even 
if the chance of secession being possible and Œfeasible¹ before 
the introduction of socialism be only one in a thousand. . . . 
³On the other hand, a Social-Democrat belonging to a small 
nation must emphasise in his agitation the second word of our 
general formula: Œvoluntary union¹ of nations, He may, without 
violating his duties as an internationalist, be in favour of either 
the political independence of his nation or its inclusion in a neighbouring 
state X, Y, Z, etc. But in all cases he must fight against 
small-nation narrow-mindedness, isolationism and aloofness, he 
must fight for the recognition of the whole and the general, for

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 155 
the subordination of the interests of the particular to the interests 
of the general. 
³People who have not gone thoroughly into the question 
think there is a Œcontradiction¹ in Social-Democrats of oppressing 
nations insisting on Œfreedom of secession,¹ while Social-Democrats 
of oppressed nations insist on Œfreedom of union.¹ However, 
a little reflection will show that there is not, and cannot be, any 
other road leading from the given situation to internationalism 
and the amalgamation of nations, any other road to this goal² (see 
Vol. XIX, pp. 261-62). 
VII 
STRATEGY AND TACTICS 
From this theme I take six questions: 
a) strategy and tactics as the science of leadership 
in the class struggle of the proletariat; 
b) stages of the revolution, and strategy; 
c) the flow and ebb of the movement, and tactics; 
d) strategic leadership; 
e) tactical leadership; 
f) reformism and revolutionism. 
1) Strategy and tactics as the science of leadership in 
the class struggle of the proletariat. The period of the 
domination of the Second International was mainly a 
period of the formation and training of the proletarian 
political armies under conditions of more or less peaceful 
development. It was the period of parliamentarism as 
the predominant form of the class struggle. Questions 
of great class conflicts, of preparing the proletariat for 
revolutionary clashes, of the means of achieving the dictatorship 
of the proletariat, did not seem to be on the 
order of the day at that time. The task was confined to 
utilising all means of legal development for the purpose

J. V. S T A L I N 156 
of forming and training the proletarian armies, to utilising 
parliamentarism in conformity with the conditions 
under which the status of the proletariat remained, 
and, as it seemed, had to remain, that of an opposition. 
It scarcely needs proof that in such a period and 
with such a conception of the tasks of the proletariat 
there could be neither an integral strategy nor any elaborated 
tactics. There were fragmentary and detached 
ideas about tactics and strategy, but no tactics or strategy 
as such. 
The mortal sin of the Second International was not 
that it pursued at that time the tactics of utilising parliamentary 
forms of struggle, but that it overestimated 
the importance of these forms, that it considered them 
virtually the only forms; and that when the period of 
open revolutionary battles set in and the question of 
extra-parliamentary forms of struggle came to the fore, 
the parties of the Second International turned their backs 
on these new tasks, refused to shoulder them. 
Only in the subsequent period, the period of direct 
action by the proletariat, the period of proletarian revolution, 
when the question of overthrowing the bourgeoisie 
became a question of immediate practical action; 
when the question of the reserves of the proletariat 
(strategy) became one of the most burning questions; 
when all forms of struggle and of organisation, parliamentary 
and extra-parliamentary (tactics), had quite clearly 
manifested themselves‹only in this period could an 
integral strategy and elaborated tactics for the struggle 
of the proletariat be worked out. It was precisely in this 
period that Lenin brought out into the light of day the 
brilliant ideas of Marx and Engels on tactics and strategy

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 157 
that had been suppressed by the opportunists of the 
Second International. But Lenin did not confine himself 
to restoring particular tactical propositions of Marx and 
Engels. He developed them further and supplemented 
them with new ideas and propositions, combining them 
all into a system of rules and guiding principles for 
the leadership of the class struggle of the proletariat. 
Lenin¹s pamphlets, such as What Is To Be Done?, Two 
Tactics, Imperialism, The State and Revolution, The Proletarian 
Revolution and the Renegade Kautsky, ³Left Wing² 
Communism, undoubtedly constitute priceless contributions 
to the general treasury of Marxism, to its revolutionary 
arsenal. The strategy and tactics of Leninism 
constitute the science of leadership in the revolutionary 
struggle of the proletariat. 
2) Stages of the revolution, and strategy. Strategy is the 
determination of the direction of the main blow of the 
proletariat at a given stage of the revolution, the elaboration 
of a corresponding plan for the disposition of the 
revolutionary forces (main and secondary reserves), the 
fight to carry out this plan throughout the given stage of 
the revolution. 
Our revolution had already passed through two stages, 
and after the October Revolution it entered a third one. 
Our strategy changed accordingly. 
First stage. 1903 to February 1917. Objective: to 
overthrow tsarism and completely wipe out the survivals 
of mediaevalism. The main force of the revolution: the 
proletariat. Immediate reserves: the peasantry. Direction 
of the main blow: the isolation of the liberal-monarchist 
bourgeoisie, which was striving to win over the peasantry 
and liquidate the revolution by a compromise with

J. V. S T A L I N 158 
tsarism. Plan for the disposition of forces: alliance of 
the working class with the peasantry. ³The proletariat 
must carry to completion the democratic revolution, by 
allying to itself the mass of the peasantry in order to 
crush by force the resistance of the autocracy and to 
paralyse the instability of the bourgeoisie² (see Lenin, 
Vol. VIII, p. 96). 
Second stage. March 1917 to October 1917. Objective: 
to overthrow imperialism in Russia and to withdraw 
from the imperialist war. The main force of the revolution: 
the proletariat. Immediate reserves: the poor peasantry. 
The proletariat of neighbouring countries as probable 
reserves. The protracted war and the crisis of imperialism 
as a favourable factor. Direction of the main 
blow: isolation of the petty-bourgeois democrats (Mensheviks 
and Socialist-Revolutionaries), who were striving 
to win over the toiling masses of the peasantry and to 
put an end to the revolution by a compromise with 
imperialism. Plan for the disposition of forces: alliance 
of the proletariat with the poor peasantry. ³The 
proletariat must accomplish the socialist revolution, by 
allying to itself the mass of the semi-proletarian elements 
of the population in order to crush by force the 
resistance of the bourgeoisie and to paralyse the instability 
of the peasantry and the petty bourgeoisie² 
(ibid.). 
Third stage. Began after the October Revolution. 
Objective: to consolidate the dictatorship of the proletariat 
in one country, using it as a base for the defeat of 
imperialism in all countries. The revolution spreads 
beyond the confines of one country; the epoch of 
world revolution has begun. The main forces of the rev

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 159 
olution: the dictatorship of the proletariat in one country, 
and the revolutionary movement of the proletariat 
in all countries. Main reserves: the semi-proletarian and 
small-peasant masses in the developed countries, and the liberation 
movement in the colonies and dependent countries. 
Direction of the main blow: isolation of the pettybourgeois 
democrats, and isolation of the parties of the Second 
International, which constitute the main support 
of the policy of compromise with imperialism. Plan for 
the disposition of forces: alliance of the proletarian revolution 
with the liberation movement in the colonies 
and dependent countries. 
Strategy deals with the main forces of the revolution 
and their reserves. It changes with the passing of the revolution 
from one stage to another, but remains basically 
unchanged throughout a given stage. 
3) The flow and ebb of the movement, and tactics. Tactics 
are the determination of the line of conduct of the 
proletariat in the comparatively short period of the flow 
or ebb of the movement, of the rise or decline of the revolution, 
the fight to carry out this line by means of replacing 
old forms of struggle and organisation by new ones, 
old slogans by new ones, by combining these forms, etc. 
While the object of strategy is to win the war against 
tsarism, let us say, or against the bourgeoisie, to carry 
through the struggle against tsarism or against the bourgeoisie 
to its end, tactics pursue less important objects, 
for their aim is not the winning of the war as a 
whole, but the winning of some particular engagements 
or some particular battles, the carrying through successfully 
of some particular campaigns or actions corresponding 
to the concrete circumstances in the given period

J. V. S T A L I N 160 
of rise or decline of the revolution. Tactics are a part of 
strategy, subordinate to it and serving it. 
Tactics change according to flow and ebb. While the 
strategic plan remained unchanged during the first stage 
of the revolution (1903 to February 1917), tactics changed 
several times during that period. In the period from 
1903 to 1905 the Party pursued offensive tactics, for the 
tide of the revolution was rising, the movement was on 
the upgrade, and tactics had to proceed from this fact. 
Accordingly, the forms of struggle were revolutionary, 
corresponding to the requirements of the rising tide of 
the revolution. Local political strikes, political demonstrations, 
the general political strike, boycott of the 
Duma, uprising, revolutionary fighting slogans‹such 
were the successive forms of struggle during that period. 
These changes in the forms of struggle were accompanied 
by corresponding changes in the forms of organisation. 
Factory committees, revolutionary peasant committees, 
strike committees, Soviets of workers¹ deputies, a 
workers¹ party operating more or less openly‹such were 
the forms of organisation during that period. 
In the period from 1907 to 1912 the Party was compelled 
to resort to tactics of retreat; for we then experienced 
a decline in the revolutionary movement, the ebb 
of the revolution, and tactics necessarily had to take this 
fact into consideration. The forms of struggle, as well as 
the forms of organisation, changed accordingly: instead 
of the boycott of the Duma‹participation in the Duma; 
instead of open revolutionary actions outside the 
Duma‹actions and work in the Duma; instead of 
general political strikes‹partial economic strikes, or 
simply a lull in activities. Of course, the Party had to go

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 161 
underground during that period, while the revolutionary 
mass organisations were replaced by cultural, educational, 
co-operative, insurance and other legal organisations. 
The same must be said of the second and third stages 
of the revolution, during which tactics changed dozens of 
times, whereas the strategic plans remained unchanged. 
Tactics deal with the forms of struggle and the forms 
of organisation of the proletariat, with their changes and 
combinations. During a given stage of the revolution 
tactics may change several times, depending on the flow 
or ebb, the rise or decline, of the revolution. 
4) Strategic leadership. The reserves of the revolution 
can be: 
direct: a) the peasantry and in general the intermediate 
strata of the population within the country; b) the 
proletariat of neighbouring countries; c) the revolutionary 
movement in the colonies and dependent countries; 
d) the conquests and gains of the dictatorship 
of the proletariat‹part of which the proletariat may give 
up temporarily, while retaining superiority of forces, 
in order to buy off a powerful enemy and gain a 
respite; and 
indirect: a) the contradictions and conflicts among 
the non-proletarian classes within the country, which 
can be utilised by the proletariat to weaken the enemy 
and to strengthen its own reserves; b) contradictions, 
conflicts and wars (the imperialist war, for instance) 
among the bourgeois states hostile to the proletarian 
state, which can be utilised by the proletariat in its offensive 
or in manoeuvring in the event of a forced retreat. 
There is no need to speak at length about the reserves 
of the first category, as their significance is clear to

J. V. S T A L I N 162 
everyone. As for the reserves of the second-category, whose 
significance is not always clear, it must be said that 
sometimes they are of prime importance for the progress 
of the revolution. One can hardly deny the enormous 
importance, for example, of the conflict between the 
petty-bourgeois democrats (the Socialist-Revolutionaries) 
and the liberal-monarchist bourgeoisie (the Cadets) 
during and after the first revolution, which undoubtedly 
played i t s part in freeing the peasantry from 
the influence of the bourgeoisie. Still less reason is 
there for denying the colossal importance of the fact 
that the principal groups of imperialists were engaged in a 
deadly war during the period of the October Revolution, 
when the imperialists, engrossed in war among themselves, 
were unable to concentrate their forces against the 
young Soviet power, and the proletariat, for this very 
reason, was able to get down to the work of organising 
its forces and consolidating its power, and to prepare 
the rout of Kolchak and Denikin. It must be presumed 
that now, when the contradictions among the imperialist 
groups are becoming more and more profound, and 
when a new war among them is becoming inevitable, 
reserves of this description will assume ever greater importance 
for the proletariat. 
The task of strategic leadership is to make proper use 
of all these reserves for the achievement of the main 
object of the revolution at the given stage of its development. 
What does making proper use of reserves mean? 
It means fulfilling certain necessary conditions, of 
which the following must be regarded as the principal 
ones:

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 163 
Firstly. The concentration of the main forces of the 
revolution at the enemy¹s most vulnerable spot at the 
decisive moment, when the revolution has already become 
ripe, when the offensive is going full-steam ahead, 
when insurrection is knocking at the door, and when bringing 
the reserves up to the vanguard is the decisive condition 
of success. The Party¹s strategy during the period 
from April to October 1917 can be taken as an example 
of this manner of utilising reserves. Undoubtedly, the 
enemy¹s most vulnerable spot at that time was the war. 
Undoubtedly, it was on this question, as the fundamental 
one, that the Party rallied the broadest masses of 
the population around the proletarian vanguard. The 
Party¹s strategy during that period was, while training 
the vanguard for street action by means of manifestations 
and demonstrations, to bring the reserves up to the 
vanguard through the medium of the Soviets in the rear 
and the soldiers¹ committees at the front. The outcome 
of the revolution has shown that the reserves were properly 
utilised. 
Here is what Lenin, paraphrasing the well-known 
theses of Marx and Engels on insurrection, says about this 
condition of the strategic utilisation of the forces of the 
revolution: 
³1) Never play with insurrection, but when beginning i t 
firmly realise that you must go to the end. 
³2) Concentrate a great superiority of forces at the decisive 
point, at the decisive moment, otherwise the enemy, who has the 
advantage of better preparation and organisation, will destroy 
the insurgents. 
³3) Once the insurrection has begun, you must act with the 
greatest determination, and by all means, without fail, take the 
offensive. ŒThe defensive is the death of every armed rising.¹

J. V. S T A L I N 164 
³4) You must try to take the enemy by surprise and seize 
the moment when his forces are scattered. 
³5) You must strive for daily successes, even if small (one 
might say hourly, if it is the case of one town), and at all costs 
retain the Œmoral ascendancy¹² (see Vol. XXI, pp. 319-20). 
Secondly. The selection of the moment for the decisive 
blow, of the moment for starting the insurrection, 
so timed as to coincide with the moment when the crisis 
has reached its climax, when it is already the case 
that the vanguard is prepared to fight to the end, the 
reserves are prepared to support the vanguard, and 
maximum consternation reigns in the ranks of the 
enemy. 
The decisive battle, says Lenin, may be deemed to have fully 
matured if ³(1) all the class forces hostile to us have become 
sufficiently entangled, are sufficiently at loggerheads, have 
sufficiently weakened themselves in a struggle which is beyond 
their strength²; if ³(2) all the vacillating, wavering, unstable, 
intermediate elements‹the petty bourgeoisie, the petty-bourgeois 
democrats as distinct from the bourgeoisie‹have sufficiently 
exposed themselves in the eyes of the people, have sufficiently 
disgraced themselves through their practical bankruptcy²; i f 
³(3) among the proletariat a mass sentiment in favour of 
supporting the most determined, supremely bold, revolutionary 
action against the bourgeoisie has arisen and begun vigorously 
to grow. Then revolution is indeed ripe; then, indeed, if we have 
correctly gauged all the conditions indicated above . . . and if we 
have chosen the moment rightly, our victory is assured² (see 
Vol. XXV, p. 229). 
The manner in which the October uprising was 
carried out may be taken as a model of such strategy.

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 165 
Failure to observe this condition leads to a dangerous 
error called ³loss of tempo,² when the Party 
lags behind the movement or runs far ahead of it, courting 
the danger of failure. An example of such ³loss of 
tempo,² of how the moment for an uprising should not 
be chosen, may be seen in the attempt made by a section 
of our comrades to begin the uprising by arresting 
the Democratic Conference in September 1917, 
when wavering was still apparent in the Soviets, when 
the armies at the front were still at the crossroads, 
when the reserves had not yet been brought up to the 
vanguard. 
Thirdly. Undeviating pursuit of the course adopted, 
no matter what difficulties and complications are encountered 
on the road towards the goal; this is necessary 
in order that the vanguard may not lose sight of the main 
goal of the struggle and that the masses may not stray 
from the road while marching towards that goal and 
striving to rally around the vanguard. Failure to observe 
this condition leads to a grave error, well known to sailors 
as ³losing one¹s bearings.² As an example of this ³losing 
one¹s bearings² we may take the erroneous conduct of 
our Party when, immediately after the Democratic Conference, 
it adopted a resolution to participate in the Preparliament. 
For the moment the Party, as it were, forgot 
that the Pre-parliament was an attempt of the bourgeoisie 
to switch the country from the path of the Soviets to the 
path of bourgeois parliamentarism, that the Party¹s participation 
in such a body might result in mixing everything 
up and confusing the workers and peasants, who 
were waging a revolutionary struggle under the slogan: 
³All power to the Soviets.² This mistake was rectified

J. V. S T A L I N 166 
by the withdrawal of the Bolsheviks from the Pre-parliament. 
Fourthly. Manoeuvring the reserves with a view to 
effecting a proper retreat when the enemy is strong, when 
retreat is inevitable, when to accept battle forced upon 
us by the enemy is obviously disadvantageous, when, 
with the given relation of forces, retreat becomes the 
only way to escape a blow against the vanguard and to 
retain the reserves for the latter. 
³The revolutionary parties,² says Lenin, ³must complete 
their education. They have learnt to attack. Now they have to 
realise that this knowledge must be supplemented with the knowledge 
how to retreat properly. They have to realise‹and the revolutionary 
class is taught to realise it by its own bitter experience‹ 
that victory is impossible unless they have learnt both how to 
attack and how to retreat properly² (see Vol. XXV, p. 177). 
The object of this strategy is to gain time, to disrupt 
the enemy, and to accumulate forces in order later 
to assume the offensive. 
The signing of the Brest Peace may be taken as a 
model of this strategy; for it enabled the Party to gain 
time, to take advantage of the conflicts in the camp of 
the imperialists, to disrupt the forces of the enemy, 
to retain the support of the peasantry, and to accumulate 
forces in preparation for the offensive against 
Kolchak and Denikin. 
³In concluding a separate peace,² said Lenin at that time, 
³we free ourselves as much as is possible at the present moment 
from both warring imperialist groups, we take advantage of their 
mutual enmity and warfare, which hinder them from making 
a deal against us, and for a certain period have our hands

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 167 
free to advance and to consolidate the socialist revolution² (see 
Vol. XXII, p. 198). 
³Now even the biggest fool,² said Lenin three years after 
the Brest Peace, ³can see that the ŒBrest Peace¹ was a concession 
that strengthened us and broke up the forces of international 
imperialism² (see Vol. XXVII, p. 7). 
Such are the principal conditions which ensure correct 
strategic leadership. 
5) Tactical leadership. Tactical leadership is a part of 
strategic leadership, subordinated to the tasks and the 
requirements of the latter. The task of tactical leadership 
is to master all forms of struggle and organisation 
of the proletariat and to ensure that they are used properly 
so as to achieve, with the given relation of forces, the 
maximum results necessary to prepare for strategic 
success. 
What is meant by making proper use of the forms of 
struggle and organisation of the proletariat? 
It means fulfilling certain necessary conditions, of 
which the following must be regarded as the principal 
ones: 
Firstly. To put in the forefront precisely those forms 
of struggle and organisation which are best suited to the 
conditions prevailing during the flow or ebb of the movement 
at a given moment, and which therefore can facilitate 
and ensure the bringing of the masses to the revolutionary 
positions, the bringing of the millions to the revolutionary 
front, and their disposition at the revolutionary 
front. 
The point here is not that the vanguard should realise 
the impossibility of preserving the old regime and the inevitability 
of its overthrow. The point is that the masses,

J. V. S T A L I N 168 
the millions, should understand this inevitability and 
display their readiness to support the vanguard. But 
the masses can understand this only from their own experience. 
The task is to enable the vast masses to realise 
from their own experience the inevitability of the overthrow 
of the old regime, to promote such methods of 
struggle and forms of organisation as will make it easier 
for the masses to realise from experience the correctness 
of the revolutionary slogans. 
The vanguard would have become detached from the 
working class, and the working class would have lost 
contact with the masses, if the Party had not decided at 
the time to participate in the Duma, if it had not decided 
to concentrate its forces on work in the Duma and to 
develop a struggle on the basis of this work, in order to 
make it easier for the masses to realise from their own 
experience the futility of the Duma, the falsity of the 
promises of the Cadets, the impossibility of compromise 
with tsarism, and the inevitability of an alliance between 
the peasantry and the working class. Had the masses 
not gained their experience during the period of the 
Duma, the exposure of the Cadets and the hegemony of 
the proletariat would have been impossible. 
The danger of the ³Otzovist² tactics was that they 
threatened to detach the vanguard from the millions of 
its reserves. 
The Party would have become detached from the 
working class, and the working class would have lost its 
influence among the broad masses of the peasants and 
soldiers, if the proletariat had followed the ³Left² Communists, 
who called for an uprising in April 1917, 
when the Mensheviks and the Socialist-Revolutionaries had

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 169 
not yet exposed themselves as advocates of war and 
imperialism, when the masses had not yet realised from 
their own experience the falsity of the speeches of 
the Mensheviks and the Socialist-Revolutionaries about 
peace, land and freedom. Had the masses not gained this 
experience during the Kerensky period, the Mensheviks 
and the Socialist-Revolutionaries would not have been 
isolated and the dictatorship of the proletariat would 
have been impossible. Therefore, the tactics of ³patiently 
explaining² the mistakes of the petty-bourgeois 
parties and of open struggle in the Soviets were the only 
correct tactics. 
The danger of the tactics of the ³Left² Communists 
was that they threatened to transform the Party from the 
leader of the proletarian revolution into a handful of 
futile conspirators with no ground to stand on. 
³Victory cannot be won with the vanguard alone,² says 
Lenin. ³To throw the vanguard alone into the decisive battle, 
before the whole class, before the broad masses have taken up 
a position either of direct support of the vanguard, or at least 
of benevolent neutrality towards it . . . would be not merely folly 
but a crime. And in order that actually the whole class, that actually 
the broad masses of the working people and those oppressed 
by capital may take up such a position, propaganda and agitation 
alone are not enough. For this the masses must have their own 
political experience. Such is the fundamental law of all great 
revolutions, now confirmed with astonishing force and vividness 
not only in Russia but also in Germany. Not only the uncultured, 
often illiterate masses of Russia, but the highly cultured, entirely 
literate masses of Germany had to realise through their own 
painful experience the absolute impotence and spinelessness, the 
absolute helplessness and servility to the bourgeoisie, the utter 
vileness, of the government of the knights of the Second International, 
the absolute inevitability of a dictatorship of the

J. V. S T A L I N 170 
extreme reactionaries (Kornilov in Russia, Kapp and Co. in Germany) 
as the only alternative to a dictatorship of the proletariat, 
in order to turn resolutely towards communism² (see Vol. XXV, 
p. 228). 
Secondly. To locate at any given moment the particular 
link in the chain of processes which, if grasped, 
will enable us to keep hold of the whole chain and to 
prepare the conditions for achieving strategic success. 
The point here is to single out from all the tasks confronting 
the Party the particular immediate task, the 
fulfilment of which constitutes the central point, and the 
accomplishment of which ensures the successful fulfilment 
of the other immediate tasks. 
The importance of this thesis may be illustrated by 
two examples, one of which could be taken from the 
remote past (the period of the formation of the Party) 
and the other from the immediate present (the period 
of the NEP). 
In the period of the formation of the Party, when 
the innumerable circles and organisations had not yet 
been linked together, when amateurishness and the parochial 
outlook of the circles were corroding the Party 
from top to bottom, when ideological confusion was the 
characteristic feature of the internal life of the Party, 
the main link and the main task in the chain of links 
and in the chain of tasks then confronting the Party proved 
to be the establishment of an all-Russian illegal newspaper 
(Iskra). Why? Because, under the conditions then prevailing, 
only by means of an all-Russian illegal newspaper 
was it possible to create a solid core of the Party capable 
of uniting the innumerable circles and organisations 
into one whole, to prepare the conditions for

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 171 
ideological and tactical unity, and thus to build the 
foundations for the formation of a real party. 
During the period of transition from war to economic 
construction, when industry was vegetating in the grip of 
disruption and agriculture was suffering from a shortage 
of urban manufactured goods, when the establishment 
of a bond between state industry and peasant economy 
became the fundamental condition for successful socialist 
construction‹in that period it turned out that the main 
link in the chain of processes, the main task among a 
number of tasks, was to develop trade. Why? Because 
under the conditions of the NEP the bond between industry 
and peasant economy cannot be established except 
through trade; because under the conditions of the 
NEP production without sale is fatal for industry; because 
industry can be expanded only by the expansion 
of sales as a result of developing trade; because only 
after we have consolidated our position in the sphere 
of trade, only after we have secured control of trade, 
only after we have secured this link can there be any hope 
of linking industry with the peasant market and successfully 
fulfilling the other immediate tasks in order to 
create the conditions for building the foundations of 
socialist economy. 
³It is not enough to be a revolutionary and an adherent of 
socialism or a Communist in general,² says Lenin. ³One must be 
able at each particular moment to find the particular link in 
the chain which one must grasp with all one¹s might in order to 
keep hold of the whole chain and to prepare firmly for the 
transition to the next link.² . . . 
³At the present time . . . this link is the revival of internal 
trade under proper state regulation (direction). Trade‹that is the 
Œlink¹ in the historical chain of events, in the transitional forms

J. V. S T A L I N 172 
of our socialist construction in 1921-22, Œwhich we must grasp 
with all our might¹. . .² (see Vol. XXVII, p. 82). 
Such are the principal conditions which ensure correct 
tactical leadership. 
6) Reformism and revolutionism. What is the difference 
between revolutionary tactics and reformist 
tactics? 
Some think that Leninism is opposed to reforms, 
opposed to compromises and agreements in general. 
This is absolutely wrong. Bolsheviks know as well as 
anybody else that in a certain sense ³every little helps,² 
that under certain conditions reforms in general, and compromises 
and agreements in particular, are necessary 
and useful. 
³To carry on a war for the overthrow of the international 
bourgeoisie,² says Lenin, ³a war which is a hundred times more 
difficult, protracted and complicated than the most stubborn 
of ordinary wars between states, and to refuse beforehand to 
manoeuvre, to utilise the conflict of interests (even though temporary) 
among one¹s enemies, to reject agreements and compromises 
with possible (even though temporary, unstable, vacillating 
and conditional) allies‹is not this ridiculous in the extreme? 
Is it not as though, when making a difficult ascent of an unexplored 
and hitherto inaccessible mountain, we were to refuse beforehand 
ever to move in zigzags, ever to retrace our steps, ever 
to abandon the course once selected and to try others?² (see 
Vol. XXV, p. 210). 
Obviously, therefore, it is not a matter of reforms or 
of compromises and agreements, but of the use people 
make of reforms and agreements. 
To a reformist, reforms are everything, while revolutionary 
work is something incidental, something just to

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 173 
talk about, mere eyewash. That is why, with reformist 
tactics under the conditions of bourgeois rule, reforms are 
inevitably transformed into an instrument for strengthening 
that rule, an instrument for disintegrating the 
revolution. 
To a revolutionary, on the contrary, the main thing 
is revolutionary work and not reforms; to him reforms 
are a by-product of the revolution. That is why, with revolutionary 
tactics under the conditions of bourgeois rule, 
reforms are naturally transformed into an instrument 
for disintegrating that rule, into an instrument for 
strengthening the revolution, into a strongpoint for the 
further development of the revolutionary movement. 
The revolutionary will accept a reform in order to 
use it as an aid in combining legal work with illegal 
work and to intensify, under its cover, the illegal work for 
the revolutionary preparation of the masses for the overthrow 
of the bourgeoisie. 
That is the essence of making revolutionary use of 
reforms and agreements under the conditions of imperialism. 
The reformist, on the contrary, will accept reforms in 
order to renounce all illegal work, to thwart the preparation 
of the masses for the revolution and to rest in the 
shade of ³bestowed² reforms. 
That is the essence of reformist tactics. 
Such is the position in regard to reforms and agreements 
under the conditions of imperialism. 
The situation changes somewhat, however, after the 
overthrow of imperialism, under the dictatorship of the 
proletariat. Under certain conditions, in a certain situation, 
the proletarian power may find itself compelled

J. V. S T A L I N 174 
temporarily to leave the path of the revolutionary 
reconstruction of the existing order of things and to take 
the path of its gradual transformation, the ³reformist 
path,² as Lenin says in his well-known article ³The 
Importance of Gold,²32 the path of flanking movements, 
of reforms and concessions to the non-proletarian classes‹ 
in order to disintegrate these classes, to give the revolution 
a respite, to recuperate one¹s forces and prepare the 
conditions for a new offensive. It cannot be denied that 
in a sense this is a ³reformist² path. But it must be borne 
in mind that there is a fundamental distinction here, 
which consists in the fact that in this case the reform 
emanates from the proletarian power, it strengthens the 
proletarian power, it procures for it a necessary respite, 
and its purpose is to disintegrate, not the revolution, but the 
non-proletarian classes. 
Under such conditions a reform is thus transformed 
into its opposite. 
The proletarian power is able to adopt such a policy 
because, and only because, the sweep of the revolution in 
the preceding period was great enough and therefore 
provided a sufficiently wide expanse within which to 
retreat, substituting for offensive tactics the tactics of 
temporary retreat, the tactics of flanking movements. 
Thus, while formerly, under bourgeois rule, reforms 
were a by-product of revolution, now, under the 
dictatorship of the proletariat, the source of reforms 
is the revolutionary gains of the proletariat, the reserves 
accumulated in the hands of the proletariat and consisting 
of these gains. 
³Only Marxism,² says Lenin, ³has precisely and correctly 
defined the relation of reforms to revolution. However, Marx

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 175 
was able to see this relation only from one aspect, namely, under 
the conditions preceding the first to any extent permanent and 
lasting victory of the proletariat, if only in a single country. Under 
those conditions, the basis of the proper relation was: reforms are 
a by-product of the revolutionary class struggle of the proletariat. 
. . . After the victory of the proletariat, if only in a single 
country, something new enters into the relation between reforms 
and revolution. In principle, it is the same as before, but a change 
in form takes place, which Marx himself could not foresee, but 
which can be appreciated only on the basis of the philosophy and 
politics of Marxism. . . . After the victory (while still remaining 
a Œby-product¹ on an international scale) they (i.e., reforms‹ 
J. St.) are, in addition, for the country in which victory has been 
achieved, a necessary and legitimate respite in those cases when, 
after the utmost exertion of effort, it becomes obvious that sufficient 
strength is lacking for the revolutionary accomplishment 
of this or that transition. Victory creates such a Œreserve of strength¹ 
that it is possible to hold out even in a forced retreat, to hold out 
both materially and morally² (see Vol. XXVII, pp. 84-85). 
VIII 
THE PARTY 
In the pre-revolutionary period, the period of more 
or less peaceful development, when the parties of the 
Second International were the predominant force in the 
working-class movement and parliamentary forms of 
struggle were regarded as the principal forms -- under 
these conditions the Party neither had nor could have had 
that great and decisive importance which it acquired 
afterwards, under conditions of open revolutionary 
clashes. Defending the Second International against 
attacks made upon it, Kautsky says that the parties 
of the Second International are an instrument of peace 
and not of war, and that for this very reason they were

J. V. S T A L I N 176 
powerless to take any important steps during the war, 
during the period of revolutionary action by the proletariat. 
That is quite true. But what does it mean? It means 
that the parties of the Second International are unfit for 
the revolutionary struggle of the proletariat, that they 
are not militant parties of the proletariat, leading the 
workers to power, but election machines adapted for 
parliamentary elections and parliamentary struggle. 
This, in fact, explains why, in the days when the opportunists 
of the Second International were in the ascendancy, 
it was not the party but its parliamentary group that 
was the chief political organisation of the proletariat. It 
is well known that the party at that time was really an 
appendage and subsidiary of the parliamentary group. It 
scarcely needs proof that under such circumstances and 
with such a party at the helm there could be no question 
of preparing the proletariat for revolution. 
But matters have changed radically with the dawn of 
the new period. The new period is one of open class collisions, 
of revolutionary action by the proletariat, of proletarian 
revolution, a period when forces are being directly 
mustered for the overthrow of imperialism and the 
seizure of power by the proletariat. In this period the 
proletariat is confronted with new tasks, the tasks of 
reorganising all party work on new, revolutionary lines; 
of educating the workers in the spirit of revolutionary 
struggle for power; of preparing and moving up reserves; 
of establishing an alliance with the proletarians of 
neighbouring countries; of establishing firm ties with 
the liberation movement in the colonies and dependent 
countries, etc., etc. To think that these new tasks can be 
performed by the old Social-Democratic Parties, brought

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 177 
up as they were in the peaceful conditions of parliamentarism, 
is to doom oneself to hopeless despair, to 
inevitable defeat. If, with such tasks to shoulder, the 
proletariat remained under the leadership of the old 
parties, it would be completely unarmed. It scarcely 
needs proof that the proletariat could not consent to such 
a state of affairs. 
Hence the necessity for a new party, a militant party, 
a revolutionary party, one bold enough to lead the proletarians 
in the struggle for power, sufficiently experienced 
to find its bearings amidst the complex conditions 
of a revolutionary situation, and sufficiently flexible 
to steer clear of all submerged rocks in the path to its 
goal. 
Without such a party it is useless even to think of 
overthrowing imperialism, of achieving the dictatorship 
of the proletariat. 
This new party is the party of Leninism. 
What are the specific features of this new party? 
1) The Party as the advanced detachment of the working 
class. The Party must be, first of all, the advanced 
detachment of the working class. The Party must absorb 
all the best elements of the working class, their experience, 
their revolutionary spirit, their selfless devotion 
to the cause of the proletariat. But in order that it may 
really be the advanced detachment, the Party must 
be armed with revolutionary theory, with a knowledge 
of the laws of the movement, with a knowledge of the 
laws of revolution. Without this it will be incapable of 
directing the struggle of the proletariat, of leading the 
proletariat. The Party cannot be a real party if it limits 
itself to registering what the masses of the working class

J. V. S T A L I N 178 
feel and think, if it drags at the tail of the spontaneous 
movement, if it is unable to overcome the inertia and 
political indifference of the spontaneous movement, 
if it is unable to rise above the momentary interests of the 
proletariat, if it is unable to raise the masses to the level 
of understanding the class interests of the proletariat. 
The Party must stand at the head of the working class; 
it must see farther than the working class, it must lead 
the proletariat, and not drag at the tail of the spontaneous 
movement. The parties of the Second International, 
which preach ³khvostism,² are vehicles of bourgeois 
policy, which condemns the proletariat to the role of a 
tool in the hands of the bourgeoisie. Only a party 
which adopts the standpoint of the advanced detachment of 
the proletariat and is able to raise the masses to the 
level of understanding the class interests of the proletariat 
-- only such a party can divert the working class 
from the path of trade-unionism and convert it into an 
independent political force. 
The Party is the political leader of the working class. 
I have already spoken of the difficulties of the struggle 
of the working class, of the complicated conditions 
of the struggle, of strategy and tactics, of reserves and 
manoeuvring, of attack and retreat. These conditions 
are no less complicated, if not more so, than the conditions 
of war. Who can see clearly in these conditions, who 
can give correct guidance to the proletarian millions? No 
army at war can dispense with an experienced General 
Staff if it does not want to be doomed to defeat. Is it not 
clear that the proletariat can still less dispense with 
such a General Staff if it does not want to allow itself 
to be devoured by its mortal enemies? But where is

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 179 
this General Staff? Only the revolutionary party of the 
proletariat can serve as this General Staff. The working 
class without a revolutionary party is an army without 
a General Staff. 
The Party is the General Staff of the proletariat. 
But the Party cannot be only an advanced detachment. 
It must at the same time be a detachment of the class, 
part of the class, closely bound up with it by all the fibres 
of its being. The distinction between the advanced detachment 
and the rest of the working class, between Party members 
and non-Party people, cannot disappear until classes 
disappear; it will exist as long as the ranks of the proletariat 
continue to be replenished with former members of 
other classes, as long as the working class as a whole is 
not in a position to rise to the level of the advanced 
detachment. But the Party would cease to be a party if 
this distinction developed into a gap, if the Party turned in 
on itself and became divorced from the non-Party masses. 
The Party cannot lead the class if it is not connected 
with the non-Party masses, if there is no bond between 
the Party and the non-Party masses, if these masses do 
not accept its leadership, if the Party enjoys no moral 
and political credit among the masses. 
Recently two hundred thousand new members from 
the ranks of the workers were admitted into our Party. 
The remarkable thing about this is the fact that these 
people did not merely join the Party themselves, but 
were rather sent there by all the rest of the non-Party 
workers, who took an active part in the admission of 
the new members, and without whose approval no new 
member was accepted. This fact shows that the broad 
masses of non-Party workers regard our Party as their

J. V. S T A L I N 180 
Party, as a Party near and dear to them, in whose expansion 
and consolidation they are vitally interested and 
to whose leadership they voluntarily entrust their destiny. 
It scarcely needs proof that without these intangible 
moral threads which connect the Party with the non-Party 
masses, the Party could not have become the decisive 
force of its class. 
The Party is an inseparable part of the working class. 
³We,² says Lenin, ³are the Party of a class, and therefore 
almost the whole class (and in times of war, in the period of civil 
war, the whole class) should act under the leadership of our 
Party, should adhere to our Party as closely as possible. But it 
would be Manilovism and Œkhvostism¹ to think that at any time 
under capitalism almost the whole class, or the whole class, would 
be able to rise to the level of consciousness and activity of its 
advanced detachment, of its Social-Democratic Party. No sensible 
Social-Democrat has ever yet doubted that under capitalism even 
the trade union organisations (which are more primitive and more 
comprehensible to the undeveloped strata) are unable to embrace 
almost the whole, or the whole, working class. To forget the distinction 
between the advanced detachment and the whole of the masses 
which gravitate towards it, to forget the constant duty of the advanced 
detachment to raise ever wider strata to this advanced 
level, means merely to deceive oneself, to shut one¹s eyes to the immensity 
of our tasks, and to narrow down these tasks² (See Vol. VI, 
pp. 205-06). 
2) The Party as the organised detachment of the working 
class. The Party is not only the advanced detachment 
of the working class. If it desires really to direct the 
struggle of the class it must at the same time be the organised 
detachment of its class. The Party¹s tasks under 
the conditions of capitalism are immense and extremely 
varied. The Party must direct the struggle of

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 181 
the proletariat under the exceptionally difficult conditions 
of internal and external development; it must 
lead the proletariat in the offensive when the situation 
calls for an offensive; it must lead the proletariat so 
as to escape the blow of a powerful enemy when 
the situation calls for retreat; it must imbue the 
millions of unorganised non-Party workers with the 
spirit of discipline and system in the struggle, with the 
spirit of organisation and endurance. But the Party 
can fulfil these tasks only if it is itself the embodiment 
of discipline and organisation, if it is itself the organised 
detachment of the proletariat. Without these conditions 
there can be no question of the Party really leading the 
vast masses of the proletariat. 
The Party is the organised detachment of the working 
class. 
The conception of the Party as an organised whole 
is embodied in Lenin¹s well-known formulation of the 
first paragraph of our Party Rules, in which the Party 
is regarded as the sum total of its organisations, and the 
Party member as a member of one of the organisations 
of the Party. The Mensheviks, who objected to this 
formulation as early as 1903, proposed to substitute for 
it a ³system² of self-enrolment in the Party, a ³system² 
of conferring the ³title² of Party member upon every 
³professor² and ³high-school student,² upon every ³sympathiser² 
and ³striker² who supported the Party in one 
way or another, but who did not join and did not want 
to join any one of the Party organisations. It scarcely 
needs proof that had this singular ³system² become 
entrenched in our Party it would inevitably have led to 
our Party becoming inundated with professors and

J. V. S T A L I N 182 
high-school students and to its degeneration into a loose, 
amorphous, disorganised ³formation,² lost in a sea of 
³sympathisers,² that would have obliterated the dividing 
line between the Party and the class and would 
have upset the Party¹s task of raising the unorganised 
masses to the level of the advanced detachment. Needless 
to say, under such an opportunist ³system² our Party 
would have been unable to fulfil the role of the organising 
core of the working class in the course of our revolution. 
³From the point of view of Comrade Martov,² says Lenin, 
³the border line of the Party remains quite indefinite, for Œevery 
striker¹ may Œproclaim himself a Party member.¹ What is the use 
of this vagueness? A wide extension of the Œtitle.¹ Its harm is that 
it introduces a disorganising idea, the confusing of class and Party² 
(see Vol. VI, p. 211). 
But the Party is not merely the sum total of Party 
organisations. The Party is at the same time a single 
system of these organisations, their formal union 
into a single whole, with higher and lower leading 
bodies, with subordination of the minority to the 
majority, with practical decisions binding on all 
members of the Party. Without these conditions the 
Party cannot be a single organised whole capable of 
exercising systematic and organised leadership in the 
struggle of the working class. 
³Formerly,² says Lenin, ³our Party was not a formally organised 
whole, but only the sum of separate groups, and therefore 
no other relations except those of ideological influence were 
possible between these groups. Now we have become an organised 
party, and this implies the establishment of authority, the trans

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 183 
formation of the power of ideas into the power of authority, the 
subordination of lower Party bodies to higher Party bodies² 
(see Vol. VI, p. 291). 
The principle of the minority submitting to the majority, 
the principle of directing Party work from a 
centre, not infrequently gives rise to attacks on the part 
of wavering elements, to accusations of ³bureaucracy,² 
³formalism,² etc. It scarcely needs proof that systematic 
work by the Party as one whole, and the directing 
of the struggle of the working class, would be impossible 
without putting these principles into effect. 
Leninism in questions of organisation is the unswerving 
application of these principles. Lenin terms the 
fight against these principles ³Russian nihilism² and ³aristocratic 
anarchism,² which deserves to be ridiculed and 
swept aside. 
Here is what Lenin says about these wavering elements 
in his book One Step Forward: 
³This aristocratic anarchism is particularly characteristic 
of the Russian nihilist. He thinks of the Party organisation as 
a monstrous Œfactory¹, he regards the subordination of the part 
to the whole and of the minority to the majority as Œserfdom¹ . . . , 
division of labour under the direction of a centre evokes from 
him a tragi-comical outcry against people being transformed into 
Œwheels and cogs¹. . . , mention of the organisational rules of 
the Party calls forth a contemptuous grimace and the disdainful . . . 
remark that one could very well dispense with rules altogether.² 
³It is clear, I think, that the cries about this celebrated bureaucracy 
are just a screen for dissatisfaction with the personal 
composition of the central bodies, a figleaf. . . . You are a bureaucrat 
because you were appointed by the congress not by my 
will, but against it; you are a formalist because you rely

J. V. S T A L I N 184 
on the formal decisions of the congress, and not on my consent; 
you are acting in a grossly mechanical way because you 
plead the Œmechanical¹ majority at the Party Congress and pay 
no heed to my wish to be co-opted; you are an autocrat because 
you refuse to hand over the power to the old gang²* (see Vol. VI, 
pp. 310, 287). 
3) The Party as the highest form of class organisation 
of the proletariat. The Party is the organised detachment 
of the working class. But the Party is not the only organisation 
of the working class. The proletariat has also 
a number of other organisations, without which i t 
cannot wage a successful struggle against capital: trade 
unions, co-operatives, factory organisations, parliamentary 
groups, non-Party women¹s associations, the 
press, cultural and educational organisations, youth 
leagues, revolutionary fighting organisations (in times 
of open revolutionary action), Soviets of deputies as the 
form of state organisation (if the proletariat is in power), 
etc. The overwhelming majority of these organisations 
are non-Party, and only some of them adhere directly 
to the Party, or constitute offshoots from it. All these 
organisations, under certain conditions, are absolutely 
necessary for the working class; for without them it 
would be impossible to consolidate the class positions of 
the proletariat in the diverse spheres of struggle; for 
without them it would be impossible to steel the proletariat 
as the force whose mission it is to replace the 
bourgeois order by the socialist order. But how can 
* The ³gang² here referred to is that of Axelrod, Martov, 
Potresov and others, who would not submit to the decisions 
of the Second Congress and who accused Lenin of being a ³bureaucrat.²‹
J. St.

FROM MARX 
TO MAO 
 
NOT FOR 
COMMERCIAL 
DISTRIBUTION 
185 
single leadership be exercised with such an abundance 
of organisations? What guarantee is there that this 
multiplicity of organisations will not lead to divergency 
in leadership? It may be said that each of 
these organisations carries on its work in its own special 
field, and that therefore these organisations cannot 
hinder one another. That, of course, is true. But it is 
also true that all these organisations should work in one 
direction for they serve one class, the class of the proletarians. 
The question then arises: Who is to determine the line, 
the general direction, along which the work of all these 
organisations is to be conducted? Where is the central 
organisation which is not only able, because it has 
the necessary experience, to work out such a general 
line, but, in addition, is in a position, because it has 
sufficient prestige, to induce all these organisations 
to carry out this line, so as to attain unity of leadership 
and to make hitches impossible? 
That organisation is the Party of the proletariat. 
The Party possesses all the necessary qualifications 
for this because, in the first place, it is the rallying 
centre of the finest elements in the working class, who 
have direct connections with the non-Party organisations 
of the proletariat and very frequently lead them; 
because, secondly, the Party, as the rallying centre 
of the finest members of the working class, is the best 
school for training leaders of the working class, capable 
of directing every form of organisation of their class; 
because, thirdly, the Party, as the best school for training 
leaders of the working class, is, by reason of its 
experience and prestige, the only organisation capable 
of centralising the leadership of the struggle of the 
THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM

J. V. S T A L I N 186 
proletariat, thus transforming each and every non- 
Party organisation of the working class into an auxiliary 
body and transmission belt linking the Party with the 
class. 
The Party is the highest form of class organisation of 
the proletariat. 
This does not mean, of course, that non-Party organisations, 
trade unions, co-operatives, etc., should be 
officially subordinated to the Party leadership. I t 
only means that the members of the Party who belong 
to these organisations and are doubtlessly influential 
in them should do all they can to persuade these non- 
Party organisations to draw nearer to the Party of the 
proletariat in their work and voluntarily accept its 
political leadership. 
That is why Lenin says that the Party is ³the highest 
form of proletarian class association,² whose political 
leadership must extend to every other form of organisation 
of the proletariat (see Vol. XXV, p. 194). 
That is why the opportunist theory of the ³independence² 
and ³neutrality² of the non-Party organisations, 
which breeds independent members of parliament and 
journalists isolated from the Party, narrow-minded trade 
union leaders and philistine co-operative officials, is 
wholly incompatible with the theory and practice 
of Leninism. 
4) The Party as an instrument of the dictatorship of 
the proletariat. The Party is the highest form of organisation 
of the proletariat. The Party is the principal guiding 
force within the class of the proletarians and among the 
organisations of that class. But it does not by any means 
follow from this that the Party can be regarded as an end

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 187 
in itself, as a self-sufficient force. The Party is not only 
the highest form of class association of the proletarians; 
it is at the same time an instrument in the hands of the 
proletariat for achieving the dictatorship when that has 
not yet been achieved and for consolidating and expanding 
the dictatorship when it has already been achieved. 
The Party could not have risen so high in importance and 
could not have established its influence over all other forms of 
organisation of the proletariat, if the latter had not been 
confronted with the question of power, if the conditions of 
imperialism, the inevitability of wars, and the existence 
of a crisis had not demanded the concentration of all 
the forces of the proletariat at one point, the gathering 
of all the threads of the revolutionary movement in one 
spot in order to overthrow the bourgeoisie and to achieve 
the dictatorship of the proletariat. The proletariat needs 
the Party first of all as its General Staff, which it must 
have for the successful seizure of power. It scarcely 
needs proof that without a party capable of rallying 
around itself the mass organisations of the proletariat, 
and of centralising the leadership of the entire movement 
during the progress of the struggle, the proletariat in 
Russia could not have established its revolutionary 
dictatorship. 
But the proletariat needs the Party not only to achieve 
the dictatorship; it needs it still more to maintain the 
dictatorship, to consolidate and expand it in order to 
achieve the complete victory of socialism. 
³Certainly, almost everyone now realises,² says Lenin, ³that 
the Bolsheviks could not have maintained themselves in power 
for two and a half months, let alone two and a half years, without 
the strictest, truly iron discipline in our Party, and without

J. V. S T A L I N 188 
the fullest and unreserved support of the latter by the whole mass 
of the working class, that is, by all its thinking, honest, selfsacrificing 
and influential elements, capable of leading or of 
carrying with them the backward strata² (see Vol . XXV, 
p. 173). 
Now, what does to ³maintain² and ³expand² the 
dictatorship mean? It means imbuing the millions of 
proletarians with the spirit of discipline and organisation; 
it means creating among the proletarian masses 
a cementing force and a bulwark against the corrosive 
influences of the petty-bourgeois elemental forces and 
petty-bourgeois habits; it means enhancing the organising 
work of the proletarians in re-educating and remoulding 
the petty-bourgeois strata; it means helping the masses 
of the proletarians to educate themselves as a force 
capable of abolishing classes and of preparing the conditions 
for the organisation of socialist production. But 
it is impossible to accomplish all this without a party 
which is strong by reason of its solidarity and discipline. 
³The dictatorship of the proletariat,² says Lenin, ³is a 
stubborn struggle -- bloody and bloodless, violent and peaceful, 
military and economic, educational and administrative -- against 
the forces and traditions of the old society. The force of habit of 
millions and tens of millions is a most terrible force. Without an 
iron party tempered in the struggle, without a party enjoying 
the confidence of all that is honest in the given class, without 
a party capable of watching and influencing the mood of the 
masses, it is impossible to conduct such a struggle successfully² 
(see Vol. XXV, p. 190). 
The proletariat needs the Party for the purpose 
of achieving and maintaining the dictatorship. The

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 189 
Party is an instrument of the dictatorship of the proletariat. 
But from this it follows that when classes disappear 
and the dictatorship of the proletariat withers away, 
the Party also will wither away. 
5) The Party as the embodiment of unity of will, unity 
incompatible with the existence of factions. The achievement 
and maintenance of the dictatorship of the proletariat 
is impossible without a party which is strong by reason 
of its solidarity and iron discipline. But iron discipline 
in the Party is inconceivable without unity of will, 
without complete and absolute unity of action on the 
part of all members of the Party. This does not mean, of 
course, that the possibility of conflicts of opinion within 
the Party is thereby precluded. On the contrary, iron 
discipline does not preclude but presupposes criticism 
and conflict of opinion within the Party. Least of all 
does it mean that discipline must be ³blind.² On the 
contrary, iron discipline does not preclude but presupposes 
conscious and voluntary submission, for only conscious 
discipline can be truly iron discipline. But after 
a conflict of opinion has been closed, after criticism has 
been exhausted and a decision has been arrived at, unity 
of will and unity of action of all Party members are the 
necessary conditions without which neither Party unity 
nor iron discipline in the Party is conceivable. 
³In the present epoch of acute civil war,² says Lenin, ³the Communist 
Party will be able to perform its duty only if it is organised 
in the most centralised manner, i f iron discipline bordering 
on military discipline prevails in it, and if its Party centre is 
a powerful and authoritative organ, wielding wide powers and 
enjoying the universal confidence of the members of the Party² 
(see Vol. XXV, pp. 282-83).

J. V. S T A L I N 190 
This is the position in regard to discipline in the 
Party in the period of struggle preceding the achievement 
of the dictatorship. 
The same, but to an even greater degree, must be 
said about discipline in the Party after the dictatorship 
has been achieved. 
³Whoever,² says Lenin, ³weakens in the least the iron 
discipline of the party of the proletariat (especially during the 
time of its dictatorship), actually aids the bourgeoisie against 
the proletariat² (see Vol. XXV, p. 190). 
But from this it follows that the existence of factions 
is compatible neither with the Party¹s unity nor with its 
iron discipline. It scarcely needs proof that the existence 
of factions leads to the existence of a number of 
centres, and the existence of a number of centres 
means the absence of one common centre in the Party, 
the breaking up of unity of will, the weakening and 
disintegration of discipline, the weakening and disintegration 
of the dictatorship. Of course, the parties of 
the Second International, which are fighting against 
the dictatorship of the proletariat and have no desire to 
lead the proletarians to power, can afford such liberalism 
as freedom of factions, for they have no need at 
all for iron discipline. But the parties of the Communist 
International, whose activities are conditioned by the 
task of achieving and consolidating the dictatorship of 
the proletariat, cannot afford to be ³liberal² or to permit 
freedom of factions. 
The Party represents unity of will, which precludes 
all factionalism and division of authority in the 
Party.

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 191 
Hence Lenin¹s warning about the ³danger of factionalism 
from the point of view of Party unity and of effecting 
the unity of will of the vanguard of the proletariat 
as the fundamental condition for the success of the dictatorship 
of the proletariat,² which is embodied in the 
special resolution of the Tenth Congress of our Party 
³On Party Unity.²33 
Hence Lenin¹s demand for the ³complete elimination 
of all factionalism² and the ³immediate dissolution of 
all groups, without exception, that have been formed on 
the basis of various platforms,² on pain of ³unconditional 
and immediate expulsion from the Party² (see the 
resolution ³On Party Unity²). 
6) The Party becomes strong by purging itself of opportunist 
elements. The source of factionalism in the 
Party is its opportunist elements. The proletariat is not 
an isolated class. It is constantly replenished by the 
influx of peasants, petty bourgeois and intellectuals 
proletarianised by the development of capitalism. At 
the same time the upper stratum of the proletariat, principally 
trade-union leaders and members of parliament 
who are fed by the bourgeoisie out of the super-profits 
extracted from the colonies, is undergoing a process of 
decay. ³This stratum of bourgeoisified workers, or the 
Œlabour aristocracy,¹² says Lenin, ³who are quite philistine 
in their mode of life, in the size of their earnings and 
in their entire outlook, is the principal prop of the Second 
International, and, in our days, the principal social 
(not military) prop of the bourgeoisie. For they are real 
agents of the bourgeoisie in the working-class movement, the 
labour lieutenants of the capitalist class, real channels 
of reformism and chauvinism² (see Vol. XIX, p. 77).

J. V. S T A L I N 192 
In one way or another, all these petty-bourgeois 
groups penetrate into the Party and introduce into it 
the spirit of hesitancy and opportunism, the spirit of 
demoralisation and uncertainty. It is they, principally, 
that constitute the source of factionalism and disintegration, 
the source of disorganisation and disruption of 
the Party from within. To fight imperialism with such 
³allies² in one¹s rear means to put oneself in the position of 
being caught between two fires, from the front and from 
the rear. Therefore, ruthless struggle against such 
elements, their expulsion from the Party, is a pre-requisite 
for the successful struggle against imperialism. 
The theory of ³defeating² opportunist elements by 
ideological struggle within the Party, the theory of ³over - 
coming² these elements within the confines of a single 
party, is a rotten and dangerous theory, which threatens 
to condemn the Party to paralysis and chronic infirmity, 
threatens to make the Party a prey to opportunism, 
threatens to leave the proletariat without a revolutionary 
party, threatens to deprive the proletariat of its 
main weapon in the fight against imperialism. Our Party 
could not have emer ged on to the broad highway, it could 
not have seized power and organised the dictatorship of the 
proletariat, it could not have emerged victorious from 
the civil war, if it had had within its ranks people like 
Martov and Dan, Potresov and Axelrod. Our Party 
succeeded in achieving internal unity and unexampled 
cohesion of its ranks primarily because it was able in 
good time to purge itself of the opportunist pollution, 
because i t was able to rid its ranks of Liquidators 
and Mensheviks. Proletarian parties develop and 
become strong by purging themselves of opportunists

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 193 
and reformists, social-imperialists and social-chauvinists, 
social-patriots and social-pacifists. 
The Party becomes strong by purging itself of opportunist 
elements. 
³With reformists, Mensheviks, in our ranks,² says Lenin, 
³it is impossible to be victorious in the proletarian revolution, it is 
impossible to defend i t . That is obvious in principle, and i t 
has been strikingly confirmed by the experience of both Russia 
and Hungary. . . . In Russia, difficult situations have arisen 
many times, when the Soviet regime would most certainly have 
been overthrown had Mensheviks, reformists and petty-bourgeois 
democrats remained in our Party. . . . In Italy, where, as is generally 
admitted, decisive battles between the proletariat and the 
bourgeoisie for the possession of state power are imminent. At 
such a moment it is not only absolutely necessary to remove the 
Mensheviks, reformists, Turatists from the Party, but i t may 
even be useful to remove excellent Communists who are liable 
to waver, and who reveal a tendency to waver towards Œunity¹ 
with the reformists, to remove them from all responsible posts. . . . 
On the eve of a revolution, and at a moment when a most fierce 
struggle is being waged for its victory, the slightest wavering 
in the ranks of the Party may wreck everything, frustrate the revolution, 
wrest the power from the hands of the proletariat; for this 
power is not yet consolidated, the attack upon it is still very strong. 
The desertion of wavering leaders at such a time does not weaken 
but strengthens the Party, the working-class movement and the 
revolution² (see Vol. XXV, pp. 462, 463, 464). 
IX 
STYLE IN WORK 
I am not referring to literary style. What I have in 
mind is style in work, that specific and peculiar feature 
in the practice of Leninism which creates the special 
type of Leninist worker. Leninism is a school of theory

J. V. S T A L I N 194 
and practice which trains a special type of Party and 
state worker, creates a special Leninist style in work. 
What are the characteristic features of this style? 
What are its peculiarities? 
It has two specific features: 
a) Russian revolutionary sweep and 
b) American ef ficiency. 
The style of Leninism consists in combining these two 
specific features in Party and state work. 
Russian revolutionary sweep is an antidote to 
inertia, routine, conservatism, mental stagnation and 
slavish submission to ancient traditions. Russian revolutionary 
sweep is the life giving force which stimulates 
thought, impels things forward, breaks the past and 
opens up perspectives. Without it no progress is possible. 
But Russian revolutionary sweep has every chance of 
degenerating in practice into empty ³revolutionary² Manilovism 
if it is not combined with American efficiency in 
work. Examples of this degeneration are only too numerous. 
Who does not know the disease of ³revolutionary² 
scheme concocting and ³revolutionary² plan drafting, 
which springs from the belief in the power of decrees 
to arrange everything and remake everything? A Russian 
writer, I. Ehrenburg, in his story The Percomman (The 
Perfect Communist Man), has portrayed the type of a 
³Bolshevik² afflicted with this disease, who set himself 
the task of finding a formula for the ideally perfect 
man and . . . became ³submerged² in this ³work.² The 
story contains a great exaggeration, but i t certainly 
gives a correct likeness of the disease. But no one, 
I think, has so ruthlessly and bitterly ridiculed those 
afflicted with this disease as Lenin. Lenin stigma

THE FOUNDATIONS OF LENINISM 195 
tised this morbid belief in concocting schemes and in 
turning out decrees as ³Communist vainglory.² 
³Communist vainglory,² says Lenin, ³means that a man, 
who is a member of the Communist Party, and has not yet 
been purged from it, imagines that he can solve all his problems 
by issuing Communist decrees² (see Vol. XXVII, pp. 50-51). 
Lenin usually contrasted hollow ³revolutionary² 
phrase mongering with plain everyday work, thus emphasising 
that ³revolutionary² scheme concocting is repugnant 
to the spirit and the letter of true Leninism. 
³Fewer pompous phrases, more plain, everyday work . . . ,² says 
Lenin. 
³Less political fireworks and more attention to the simplest 
but vital . . . facts of communist construction . . .² (See Vol. XXIV, 
pp. 343 and 335). 
American efficiency, on the other hand, is an antidote 
to ³revolutionary² Manilovism and fantastic scheme 
concocting. American efficiency is that indomitable force 
which neither knows nor recognises obstacles; which with 
its business-like perseverance brushes aside all obstacles; 
which continues at a task once started until it is 
finished, even if it is a minor task; and without which 
serious constructive work is inconceivable. 
But American efficiency has every chance of degenerating 
into narrow and unprincipled practicalism if 
it is not combined with Russian revolutionary sweep. 
Who has not heard of that disease of narrow empiricism 
and unprincipled practicalism which has not infrequently 
caused certain ³Bolsheviks² to degenerate and 
to abandon the cause of the revolution? We find a

J. V. S T A L I N 196 
reflection of this peculiar disease in a story by B. Pilnyak, 
entitled The Barren Year, which depicts types of Russian 
³Bolsheviks² of strong will and practical determination 
who ³function² very ³energetically,² but without vision, 
without knowing ³what it is all about,² and who, therefore, 
stray from the path of revolutionary work. No one 
has ridiculed this disease of practicalism so incisively 
as Lenin. He branded it as ³narrow-minded empiricism² 
and ³brainless practicalism.² He usually contrasted it 
with vital revolutionary work and the necessity of 
having a revolutionary perspective in all our daily 
activities, thus emphasising that this unprincipled practicalism 
is as repugnant to true Leninism as ³revolutionary² 
scheme concocting. 
The combination of Russian revolutionary sweep 
with American efficiency is the essence of Leninism in 
Party and state work. 
This combination alone produces the finished type 
of Leninist worker, the style of Leninism in work. 
Pravda, Nos. 96, 97, 103, 
105, 107, 108, 111; 
April 26 and 30, 
May 9, 11, 14, 15 and 18, 1924

THIRTEENTH CONGRESS 
OF THE R.C.P. (B.) 34 
May 23-31, 1924 
Pravda, Nos. 118 and 119; 
May 27 and 28, 1924


ORGANISATIONAL REPORT 
OF THE CENTRAL COMMITTEE 
May 24 
Comrades, the general situation, as it has developed 
in the country and around the Party in the past year, 
can be described as favourable. The basic facts: economic 
progress, increased activity generally, and especially of 
the working class, more vigorous Party life. 
In sum and substance, the question is of the extent 
to which the Party has succeeded during the year in utilising 
this situation to enhance its influence in the mass 
organisations that surround it; the extent to which it has 
succeeded in improving the composition of its membership, 
its work generally, the registration, allocation and 
promotion of responsible workers; and, lastly, the extent 
to which the Party has succeeded in improving the internal 
life of its organisations. 
From this follow eight points which I propose to 
discuss: 
a) the state of the mass organisations that surround 
the Party and link it with the class, and the growth of 
communist influence in these organisations; 
b) the condition of the state apparatus‹the People¹s 
Commissariats and organisations functioning on a business-
accounting basis -- and of the lower Soviet apparatus, 
and the growth of communist influence in this 
sphere;

J. V. S T A L I N 200 
c) the composition of the Party and the Lenin Enrolment; 
d) the composition of leading Party bodies; Party 
cadres and the younger Party element; 
e) the work of the Party in the sphere of agitation 
and propaganda, work in the countryside; 
f) the work of the Party in the registration, allocation 
and promotion of responsible workers, both Party 
and non-Party; 
g) inner-Party life; 
h) conclusions. 
I shall have to cite many figures, for without them 
the report will be incomplete and unsatisfactory. But 
I must make the reservation that I have no faith in their 
absolute accuracy, for our statistics are not up to the 
mark, since not all Soviet statisticians, unfortunately, 
possess elementary professional pride. 
With this necessary reservation, I pass to the figures. 
1. THE MASS ORGANISATIONS THAT LINK 
THE PARTY WITH THE CLASS 
a) The trade unions. Last year, according to the statistical 
returns, the trade union membership was 4,800,000. 
This year it is 5,000,000. There is no doubt about the 
increase. Trade union membership in the industries covered 
by the twelve principal industrial unions is 92 per 
cent of all the workers employed. In the basic industries 
trade union membership comprises 91-92 per cent of the 
working class. That is the position in industry. 
The picture is less favourable in agriculture, where 
there are some 800,000 workers, and where, if we count

THIRTEENTH CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 201 
the agricultural workers employed outside state-owned enterprises, 
trade union organisation amounts to 3 per cent. 
As for communist influence in the unions, we have 
data on the chairmen of gubernia and area trade union 
councils. At the time of the Twelfth Congress the proportion 
of underground-period Party members among 
them was in excess of 57 per cent; at the time of the present 
congress it is only 35 per cent. A decline, but there 
has been an increase in the percentage of trade union 
council chairmen who joined the Party after February 
1917. The explanation is that the trade union membership 
has grown, there are not enough underground-period 
Party members and the cadres are being augmented by 
the younger Party element. The proportion of workers 
among these chairmen was 55 per cent; now i t has 
become 61 per cent. The social composition of the leading 
trade union bodies has improved. 
b) The co-operatives. In this field the figures are 
more confused than in any other and inspire no confidence. 
Last year the consumers¹ co-operatives had about 
5,000,000 members. This year the number is about 
7,000,000. God grant us a new year every day, but I have 
no faith in these statistics because the consumers¹ cooperatives 
have not yet completely gone over to voluntary 
membership, and no doubt the figures include many 
³dead souls.² The agricultural co-operatives had, we 
are told, 2,000,000 members last year (though I have figures 
received last year from the Selskosoyuz giving 
the membership as 4,000,000). This year they have 
1,500,000. There can be no doubt about the decline in 
the agricultural co-operative membership. Party membership 
in the central leading bodies of the consumers¹

J. V. S T A L I N 202 
co-operatives was 87 per cent last year, and 86 per cent 
now‹a decline. For the gubernia and district unions 
of co-operatives, the figures are 68 per cent last 
year and 86 per cent this year‹an increase of Party 
influence. If, however, we examine not the ³leading² 
bodies, but the responsible workers, the actual leaders, 
we shall find that the proportion of Communists 
among all responsible workers is only 26 per cent. I believe 
that this figure is closer to the truth. Party membership 
in the leading bodies of the agricultural co-operative 
movement was 46 per cent last year and 55 per cent this 
year. But if we go into the matter a little deeper and 
take the responsible leaders, we shall find that only 
13 per cent are Communists. 
That is how some of our statisticians embellish 
the facade, the exterior, and conceal the seamy 
side. 
c) The Young Communist League. Last year the League 
had 317,000 members and candidate members (though I 
have figures for last year, signed by a member of the Central 
Committee of the R.Y.C.L., giving the membership 
as 400,000); this year the number is 570,000. Although 
the figures are somewhat confused, the growth of the organisation 
is beyond doubt. Last year the percentage of 
workers in the R.Y.C.L. was 34, this year it is 41; the 
percentage of peasants was 42 last year and is 40 this 
year. The number of pupils in factory training schools 
was 50,000 last year, this year it is 47,000. The proportion 
of R.C.P.(B.) members in the Young Communist 
League was about 10 per cent last year, and is 11 
per cent this year. Here, tool there has been undoubted 
progress.

THIRTEENTH CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 203 
d) Organisations of working women and peasant women. 
The basic organisation in this field is the delegate meeting. 
There is any amount of confused figures here, but 
a careful analysis will show that last year there were 
37,000 women¹s delegates in the towns, while this year 
there are somewhat more‹46,000. In the villages there 
were 58,000 delegates last year, while there are 100,000 
this year. I have been unable to obtain anything like 
accurate figures on the number of working women and 
peasant women these delegates represent. 
In view of the special importance of drawing working 
women and peasant women into Soviet and Party work, 
it will not be superfluous to examine their percentage 
participation in trade union bodies, Soviets, Gubernia 
and Uyezd Party Committees. The proportion of 
women in the village Soviets last year was only about 
one per cent (terribly small). This year it is 2.9 per 
cent (also very small), but nevertheless there has been 
a definite increase. In the executive committees of the 
volost Soviets the percentage was 0.3 last year, and is 
0.5 this year, a negligible increase, not worth mentioning. 
In the executive committees of the uyezd Soviets 
there were about two per cent of women last year, and 
a little over two per cent this year (my figures are for 
the R.S.F.S.R.; there are no data for all the republics). 
The figures for the executive committees of the gubernia 
Soviets in the R.S.F.S.R. are: over two per cent last year, 
and over three per cent this year. Women this year make 
up 26 per cent of the trade union membership (no figures 
are available for last year), 14 per cent of the membership 
of the factory trade union committees, six per cent in the 
gubernia committees of the various unions, and over

J. V. S T A L I N 204 
four per cent in the union central committees. The proportion 
of women members in the Party was roughly 
eight per cent last year, and is about nine per cent this 
year. Last year the proportion of women among candidate 
members was about nine per cent, now it is about 
11 per cent. All these figures refer to the position prior 
to the Lenin Enrolment. At the time of the Thirteenth Congress, 
women make up three per cent of the membership 
of the Gubernia Party Committees, and about six per 
cent of the Uyezd Committees. The percentage of Communists 
in the principal women¹s organisations, the delegate 
meetings, has dropped from 10 to 8, the decline being 
due to the increase in the number of non-Party delegates. 
It must be admitted that half of the population of our 
Soviet Union‹the women‹still stand aside, or practically 
stand aside, from the highway of Soviet and Party 
affairs. 
e) The army. The total number of Communists in the 
army, the military colleges and the navy has decreased 
from 61,000 to 52,000. This is a defect that must be 
eliminated. At the same time there has been an increase 
in the number of Party members among the commanding 
personnel. At the time of the Twelfth Congress 13 per 
cent of the commanding personnel were Communists; 
at the present time the figure is 18 per cent. The data on 
the Party standing of Communists in the army are 
of interest. Of the 52,000 Communists in the army, 
0.9 per cent‹not even one per cent‹joined the Party in 
its underground period; a little over three per cent 
joined after February and up to October 1917, 11 per cent 
joined prior to 1919, 22 per cent in 1919, 23 per cent 
in 1920, and 20 per cent in 1921-23. You will see from

THIRTEENTH CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 205 
this that our army is served mainly, if not exclusively, 
by the younger Party element. 
f) Voluntary public initiative organisations. A noteworthy 
development of the past year has been the 
appearance of a new type of organisation‹voluntary 
public initiative organisations‹diverse cultural and 
educational circles and societies, sports organisations, 
auxiliary societies, organisations of worker and peasant 
correspondents, etc. The number of these bodies is constantly 
growing, and it should be noted that they include 
not only organisations sympathetic to the Soviet power, 
but some that are hostile to it. In the R.S.F.S.R. the 
number of public initiative organisations has increased 
from about 78-80 last year to more than 300 this year. 
If one takes the physical culture organisation in 
the R.S.F.S.R., it had 126,000 members last year and 
375,000 this year. Its social composition: 35 per cent 
workers last year, 42 per cent now. All these organisations 
are centred around the trade union committees 
and clubs in the factories and around the peasant mutual 
aid committees35 in the villages. Especially noteworthy 
are the worker and peasant correspondents organisations 
the purpose of which is to act as vehicles of proletarian 
public opinion. The organisations of worker correspondents 
embrace 25,000 members, those of peasant 
correspondents‹5,000 members. In the R.S.F.S.R. the 
proportion of Communists on the gubernia executives 
of these organisations has increased from 19 per cent last 
year to over 29 per cent this year. Lastly, mention should 
be made of a new organisation which held a demonstration 
yesterday before the Lenin Mausoleum36‹the Young 
Pioneers. According to our statistics (which, as I have

J. V. S T A L I N 206 
said, are not altogether up to the mark) it had 75,000 
members last June and over 161,000 this April. Of the 
Young Pioneers, 71 per cent are children of workers in 
the industrial gubernias and seven per cent are children 
of peasants. In the national areas workers¹ children account 
for 38 per cent of the membership; in the peasant 
gubernias‹for 36 per cent. 
That is how matters stand with the mass organisations 
that surround the Party and link it with the class. 
Fundamentally there has been an undoubted growth of 
Party influence in these organisations. 
2. THE STATE APPARATUS 
a) Number of employees. According to the statistics, 
the institutions of the People¹s Commissariats, that 
is, institutions financed out of the state budget, 
had over 1,500,000 employees last year, and‹so we 
are told‹1,200,000 this year. The drop is 300,000. But 
if we take institutions functioning on a business-accounting 
basis, we find that their employees this year number 
approximately 200,000 (no figures are available for last 
year). In other words, what we gained by reducing the 
personnel in institutions financed by the state budget 
has been largely offset by an increase in the personnel 
of institutions on a business-accounting basis. This is 
apart from the fact that part of the employees have 
been transferred to the local budgets and, consequently, 
are not included in these figures. On balance, the number 
of employees has remained the same, or has even 
increased. Then there are the employees of the co-operatives‹
103,000 last year, 125,000 this year, an in

THIRTEENTH CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 207 
crease; trade union employees‹28,000 last year, 27,000 
now; and the employees in the Party apparatus‹ 
26,000 last year, 23,000 now. All in all, this makes 
1,575,000, not counting the employees of institutions 
financed out of the local budgets. So you see, there are 
no grounds so far for reporting progress in cutting down 
our office personnel generally, and that of the state 
apparatus in particular. 
b) Party composition of higher executive bodies. In 1923, 
Communists made up 83 per cent of the members of our 
higher executive bodies, members of collegiums, heads 
of central departments and their assistants (exclusive 
of industry); this year the figure is 86 per cent. Some 
progress, undoubtedly, has been made compared with 
the state of affairs that prevailed two years ago. The 
proportion of workers in these leading bodies was 19 per 
cent last year, and is now 21 per cent. This is not much, 
but at any rate there has been an increase. 
c) Party composition of industrial administrations. 
The following is the picture in relation to the industrial 
administrations‹trusts, syndicates and the larger enterprises: 
Communists made up a little over six per cent 
of the entire apparatus of the various trusts in the 
U.S.S.R. last year, and account for a little over 10 per 
cent this year. The figure for the directing bodies of 
trusts, syndicates and the larger enterprises was a little 
over 47 per cent last year, and is a little over 52 per cent 
this year. Among the directors of the larger enterprises, 
last year 31 per cent were Communists, and this year 61 
per cent. The figures for the entire apparatus of R.S.F.S.R. 
trusts are 9.5 and over 12 per cent (nearly 13 per cent) 
respectively, and for the leading bodies of R.S.F.S.R.

J. V. S T A L I N 208 
trusts‹37 and 49 per cent. For the apparatus of the 
syndicates as a whole the figures are 9 and 10 per cent, 
and for their executive personnel 42 and 55 per cent. 
On the whole, it can be stated that in our economic 
organisations, if we take the executive personnel, Communists 
make up approximately 48-50 per cent. 
d) Party composition of trade and credit organisations. 
A totally different picture is presented by our trade and 
credit organisations, which at the present juncture have 
acquired exceptional importance in our entire economy. 
Take, for example, the People¹s Commissariat of 
Internal Trade, which is of the greatest importance 
for our entire development. Prior to the last reform, 
only four per cent of the executive personnel of its central 
apparatus were Communists. If one takes so vital 
a department of the People¹s Commissariat of Foreign 
Trade as Gostorg,* it is found that only 19 per cent of 
the responsible officials are Communists, and just 
what kind of Communists these are may be judged from 
the fact that 100 per cent of the Communists at the 
central Gostorg offices have been purged. (Laughter.) 
Another important organisation, one that plays a big 
part in our entire economy, is Khleboprodukt.** This is 
the picture we have there: not counting the central office, 
local representatives and their deputies, its 58 branch 
offices employ a total of 9,900 people, of whom 5.9 per 
cent are Communists and 0.7 per cent members of 
the R.Y.C.L., the rest are non-Party. In those parts of the 
organisation that are most closely in contact with 
* The state import and export organisation.‹Tr. 
** The grain trading organisation.‹Tr.

THIRTEENTH CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 209 
the peasantry‹the grain delivery centres and all manner 
of auxiliary centres‹and among grain buyers, Communists 
make up only 17 per cent. The Khleboprodukt 
central office has 137 responsible officials, of whom 13, 
or 9 per cent, are members of the R.C.P.(B.). It should 
be noted that the Party members in Khleboprodukt are 
utilised in a most irrational way: only 20 per cent are 
doing responsible work, while the remaining 80 per 
cent are lower-category employees. The situation is no 
better in the State Bank, that key credit centre which 
is of such great importance for our entire economic life. 
You know what a powerful weapon credit can be‹ 
any section of the population can be ruined or made 
prosperous depending merely on how the so-called preferential 
credits are dispensed. Well, in the entire apparatus 
of the State Bank, only seven per cent are Communists, 
and of its executive personnel only 12 per cent. 
Yet the State Bank decides the destinies of a number 
of enterprises and of very many economic institutions. 
e) Party composition of the Soviets. Figures are available 
for the R.S.F.S.R. The proportion of Communists 
in the village Soviets is now a little over seven per 
cent, compared with about six per cent last year. In the 
executive committees of the volost Soviets the proportion 
of Communists has increased from a little over 
39 per cent to 48 per cent; in the executive committees 
of the uyezd Soviets‹from a little over 80 per cent to a 
little over 87 per cent; in the town Soviets of uyezd towns 
the proportion has dropped from 61 per cent to 58 per 
cent, in the executive committees of the gubernia Soviets 
from 90 per cent to 89 per cent, and in the town Soviets 
in gubernia towns from 78 per cent to 71 per cent. In

J. V. S T A L I N 210 
these last three cases‹town Soviets in uyezd towns, 
executive committees of gubernia Soviets and town Soviets 
in gubernia towns‹the influence of non-Party elements 
is insignificant, nevertheless it is growing. As regards 
the plenums of the executive committees of gubernia 
Soviets, we have data about 69 gubernias, with information 
about 2,623 members. What do they show? It 
appears that about 11 per cent of the membership of 
these plenums is non-Party. The highest non-Party 
percentage is in Siberia and the Far Eastern Region, 
where it forms 20 per cent. As for the national republics, 
the proportion of non-Party members on the executive 
committees of gubernia Soviets is seven per cent 
‹the lowest percentage of all. And this in the national 
republics, where Party membership is low generally! 
3. THE COMPOSITION OF THE PARTY. 
THE LENIN ENROLMENT 
a) Membership. The Party had upwards of 485,000 
members and candidate members at the time of the 
Twelfth Congress. The number at present is 472,000, 
without the Lenin Enrolment. Counting the Lenin Enrolment, 
taking the figures as on May 1 (by which date 
128,000 members had been admitted), our membership 
totals 600,000. Considering that in about a fortnight 
from now the Lenin Enrolment will have reached at 
least 200,000, the membership of the Party can be estimated 
at 670,000-680,000. 
b) Social composition of the Party. Last year workers 
accounted for 44.9 per cent of the total membership; 
this year, exclusive of the Lenin Enrolment, they ac

THIRTEENTH CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 211 
count for 45.75 per cent‹an increase of 0.8 per cent. 
The proportion of peasants has declined from 25.7 per 
cent to 24.6 per cent, or by 1.1 per cent. Office employees 
and other categories made up just over 29 per cent 
of the membership; now the percentage is somewhat 
in excess of 29 per cent, or has slightly increased. The 
social composition of the R.C.P.(B.), counting members 
and candidate members, and including the Lenin Enrolment 
as on May 1, was as follows: workers 55.4 per cent, 
peasants 23 per cent, office employees and others 21.6 
per cent. 
c) Composition as regards Party standing. Members 
who joined the Party prior to 1905 were 0.7 per 
cent last year, and 0.6 per cent this year. Members 
who joined in the period 1905-16 were two per 
cent last year and the figure is the same this year. 
Those who joined in 1917 accounted for slightly over 
nine per cent last year, and for slightly under nine 
per cent this year. The figure for those who joined in 
1918 was 16.5 per cent, and is now 15.7 per cent; and 
the figures for those who joined in 1920 are 31.5 per 
cent and 30.4 per cent respectively. Members who joined 
in 1921 made up 10.5 per cent last year, and 10.1 per 
cent this year. Members who joined in 1922 now make 
up 3.2 per cent; there are no figures for last year. Members 
who joined in 1923 make up 2.3 per cent. All these 
figures are exclusive of the Lenin Enrolment. 
d) Composition according to nationality and sex. The 
Thirteenth Congress finds Great Russians forming 72 
per cent of the Party membership; the proportion will 
evidently increase as a result of the Lenin Enrolment. 
Second come Ukrainians‹5.88 per cent, third Jews

J. V. S T A L I N 212 
5.2 per cent, next come the Tyurk nationalities‹upwards 
of four per cent, followed by other nationalities, 
such as Latvians, Georgians, Armenians, etc. The percentage 
of women members of the Party at the time of the 
Twelfth Congress was 7.8 and it is now 8.8. The figures for 
women candidate members are nine per cent and 10.5 per 
cent respectively. Thirteen per cent of the new members 
admitted in the Lenin Enrolment are women, and this 
should somewhat increase the percentages mentioned 
above. 
Lastly, on December 1, 1923, 17 per cent of all Communists 
(members and candidate members) were workers 
at the bench, and with the Lenin Enrolment, taking the 
figure as 128,000, the proportion is 35.3 per cent. 
e) Degree of Party organisation of the working class. 
Taking the number of workers in our Party as on May 1, 
plus the number we shall have admitted about two weeks 
hence, when the Lenin Enrolment will reach (and probably 
exceed) the 200,000 mark, we get a total of 410,000 
workers in our Party, out of a membership of 672,000. 
This makes 10 per cent of the entire industrial and rural 
proletariat of the Union, numbering 4,100,000. 
We have achieved a degree of organisation in which 
10 out of every 100 workers are in the Party. 
4. THE COMPOSITION OF LEADING PARTY BODIES. 
CADRES AND THE YOUNGER PARTY ELEMENT 
a) Composition of local bodies. I shall cite data on 
the composition of 45 Gubernia and Regional Party 
Committees. Party members from the underground period 
constitute over 32 per cent, the remaining 67 per

THIRTEENTH CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 213 
cent consisting of members who joined the Party later: 
23 per cent in 1917, 33 per cent in 1918-19 and nine per 
cent in 1920. In the leading local bodies, both Gubernia 
and Regional Party Committees, it is not the underground-
period members who predominate, but members 
who joined after October. Taking the presidiums of 52 
Gubernia and Regional Party Committees for which 
we have statistics on Party standing, we find that 49 
per cent of their members joined the Party before 
the revolution, 19 per cent in 1917, after February, 
26 per cent in 1918-19, and the remaining six per cent 
at later periods. Here we still have a predominance of 
Party members who joined after February. Among the 
heads of organisational departments of Gubernia and 
Regional Party Committees, 27.4 per cent at the time of 
the Twelfth Congress, and 30 per cent at the time of 
the Thirteenth Congress, dated their Party membership 
from the underground period. The corresponding figures 
for heads of agitation and propaganda departments 
are 31 and 23 per cent. A reverse tendency is to be observed 
in the case of secretaries of Gubernia and Regional 
Party Committees: of these, 62.5 per cent at the time 
of the Twelfth Congress, and 71 per cent at the time of 
the present congress, joined the Party in the underground 
period. 
The task is clear‹we must lower the requirements 
as to Party standing for secretaries of Gubernia Party 
Committees. 
Composition of 67 Uyezd Committees: undergroundperiod 
Party members‹12 per cent, membership dating 
from 1917‹22 per cent, membership dating from 
1918-19‹43 per cent. Data on secretaries of 248 Uyezd

J. V. S T A L I N 214 
Committees at the time of the present Thirteenth Congress: 
underground-period members‹25 per cent, membership 
dating from 1917, before October‹27 per cent, membership 
dating from before 1919‹37 per cent. Data 
on 6,541 secretaries of Party units in 28 gubernias: 
underground-period members‹a little over three per 
cent, and the largest proportion, 55 per cent, consisting 
of members who joined the Party after October, 
in 1917-18. 
Data on the social composition of 45 Gubernia and 
Regional Committees this year show that 48 per cent of 
their members are workers. Workers constitute 41 per 
cent of the presidiums of 52 Gubernia and Regional Committees. 
The proportion of workers among the secretaries 
of Gubernia and Regional Committees has risen 
from 44.6 per cent at the time of the Twelfth Congress 
to 48.6 per cent at the time of the Thirteenth Congress. 
Workers make up 63.4 per cent of the Uyezd Committee 
membership (67 uyezds), and 50 per cent of Uyezd Committee 
secretaries (248 uyezds). 
All these statistics relate to the period preceding the 
last gubernia and uyezd Party conferences. 
But just before the congress I received some statistics 
on the results of these last conferences. They cover 11 
gubernias and 16 regions, and indicate that the proportion 
of underground-period Party members in the Gubernia 
and Regional Committees has dropped to 27 per 
cent, while the proportion of workers has risen to 53 
per cent. 
This clearly points to two tendencies: on the one 
hand, the introduction of the younger Party element into 
the Party cadres and an extension of the cadres, and,

THIRTEENTH CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 215 
on the other, an improvement in the social composition 
of the Party organisations. 
b) Composition of the Central Committee and Central 
Control Commission. Of the 56 members and candidate 
members of the Central Committee, 44.6 per cent are 
workers and 55.3 per cent are peasants or intellectuals. 
Consequently, we should broaden the Central Committee 
by increasing the proportion of workers in it. In the 
Central Control Commission, 48 per cent of the members 
and candidate members are workers and 52 per cent are 
peasants or intellectuals. The same conclusion applies 
here too. As regards Party standing, 96 per cent of the 
members and candidate members of the Central Committee 
joined the Party in the underground period, before 
February 1917. Of the 56 members and candidate 
members of the Central Committee, only 2, i.e., four per 
cent, joined the Party at later periods. We have the same 
picture in the Central Control Commission. Of its 60 members 
and candidate members, 57 joined the Party in the 
underground period, and 3 (i.e., five per cent) at later 
periods. We must, consequently, add younger people. 
c) Composition of the present congress. In all, 742 
delegates have been registered, of whom 63.2 per cent 
are workers, and 48.4 per cent underground-period members. 
The remainder are more or less young members. 
5. THE WORK OF THE PARTY IN THE SPHERE 
OF AGITATION AND PROPAGANDA 
a) Communist education. What stands out here is the 
large proportion of political illiteracy among Party members: 
in some gubernias it is as high as 70 per cent. The

J. V. S T A L I N 216 
average for several central Russian gubernias (60,000 
people were examined) is 57 per cent; last year it was 
about 60 per cent. This is one of the fundamental defects 
in our work. Evidently, the work has proceeded 
extensively, rather than intensively. The number of 
Soviet-Party schools, or rather their student body, 
has somewhat contracted owing to the fact that some 
of the schools have been transferred to the local budgets. 
The Communist Universities have more students than 
last year. We shall, however, have to reduce the number 
somewhat, in order, in proportion to available means, 
to improve their material position and shift the emphasis 
to more profound communist education. Special 
stress must be laid on the propaganda of Leninism, which 
is of decisive importance in our work of communist 
education. 
b) The press. Last year we had 560 newspapers; this 
year the number is less‹495, but the circulation has 
increased from 1,500,000 to 2,500,000. Noteworthy is 
the increase of newspapers in languages other than Russian. 
We even have republics without a single newspaper 
in Russian‹for example Armenia, where all the 
papers without exception are published in Armenian. 
In Georgia, 91 per cent of the newspapers are published 
in Georgian. In Byelorussia, 88 per cent are published 
in languages other than Russian. This increase in the 
number of newspapers in the national languages is to 
be observed literally in every national region and republic. 
Attention should be drawn to the composition of 
the editorial staffs of our periodical publications. A survey 
of 287 press organs reveals that only 10 per cent 
of their editors are underground-period Party members

THIRTEENTH CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 217 
The greatest proportion of the editors joined the Party 
in 1918-19. This is a defect which must be remedied by 
assigning older and more experienced newspapermen 
to help the younger ones. 
c) Work among the peasants. There are a number of 
defects in this sphere. The village and volost Soviets 
are so far only tax-collecting bodies and the peasant 
regards them primarily as such. Officials well acquainted 
with the countryside give the following general opinion 
of the activities of our rural bodies: our policy is correct, 
but it is being incorrectly carried out in the localities. 
The composition of village and volost Soviet 
bodies leaves very much to be desired. The fact that our 
Party units in the countryside consist too much of administrative 
officials adversely affects their work. Still more 
detrimental is the ignorance of Soviet laws displayed 
by officials closely associated with village affairs and 
their inability to explain these laws to the peasant poor, 
their inability to defend the interests of the poor and 
middle peasants against kulak domination on the basis 
of Soviet laws and the privileges these laws extend to 
the poor peasants. Then there is the general mistake: 
the attempt to approach the peasant merely with verbal 
agitation, failing to understand that the peasant requires 
not verbal, but concrete agitation, agitation that shows 
tangible results. Recruiting into the co-operatives, 
utilisation of the privileges extended to the poor peasants, 
agricultural credits, mutual aid organised by the 
peasant committees‹these, primarily, are the issues 
that can interest the peasant.

J. V. S T A L I N 218
6. THE WORK OF THE PARTY IN THE REGISTRATION, 
ALLOCATION AND PROMOTION OF FORCES 
a) Registration and allocation. The number of responsible 
workers on our register last year was about 5,000; 
this year we have on the register about 15,000 responsible 
workers of all categories. There can be no doubt 
that our work of registration is improving. The figures 
show that last year we allocated 10,000 Party workers of 
all kinds, among them over 4,000 responsible Party 
workers. This year 6,000 were allocated including 
4,000 responsible workers. The main work of the 
Party in the allocation of forces centred, firstly, on 
providing officials for the Party; secondly, for the various 
bodies of the Supreme Council of National Economy; 
and, lastly, for the People¹s Commissariat of 
Finance‹chiefly its tax-collecting apparatus. Allocation 
of Communists to all other sectors was on a lesser 
scale. That is a big mistake in our work. At a time when 
the centre of economic life has shifted to trade we 
have displayed insufficient initiative and vigour in 
providing our trade and credit organisations and their 
branches in the U.S.S.R. and abroad with a maximum 
number of active workers. I refer in particular to such 
bodies as the Gostorg and Khleboprodukt. 
7. INNER-PARTY LIFE 
I shall not enumerate the questions examined by the 
Central Committee and its bodies, nor the nature of these 
questions. This is not of decisive importance, and moreover 
it has been dealt with in the written report circulated

THIRTEENTH CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 219 
to you. I would only like to draw your attention to the 
following: 
Firstly, the internal life of our organisations has, 
undoubtedly, improved. The impression one gets is 
that the organisations have settled down, there is little 
squabbling, and business-like work is going on. Some 
exceptions will be found in the border regions, where, 
side by side with the older Party workers who are not 
too well versed in communism, cadres of young Marxists 
are coming to the fore, those trained in the Sverdlov 
University and other educational institutions, well 
versed in Party work, but terribly weak as regards 
Soviet work. It will take some time before these 
conflicts between the younger and older workers in 
the border regions are eliminated. In this respect the 
border regions are an exception. As for the majority 
of the central Russian gubernias, it can be taken that 
the Party organisations there have settled down, and 
business-like work has made good headway. In Georgia, 
the Republic where there was more squabbling than 
anywhere else, and which was the subject of so much 
talk at the last congress, Party life has now been brought 
into pacific channels. The better elements among the 
former deviators, such as Philip Makharadze and 
Okudzhava, have definitely broken with the extreme 
deviators and have announced their readiness to carry on 
work in harmony. 
Secondly, in the Gubernia Committees, and especially 
in the Central Committee of the Party, in the past 
year the main emphasis in the work has been shifted 
from the bureaus or presidiums to the plenums. Formerly 
Central Committee plenums would entrust the

J. V. S T A L I N 220 
decision of cardinal questions to the Political Bureau. 
This is no longer the case. Now, cardinal questions 
of our policy and economy are decided by the plenums. 
Look through the agendas of our plenums and 
the stenographic reports, which are circulated to all 
the Gubernia Committees, and you will appreciate that 
the centre of activities has shifted from the Political 
and Organising Bureaus to the plenum. This is very 
important, for our plenums bring together 100-120 people 
(members and candidate members of the Central Committee 
and of the Central Control Commission), and 
since the centre of activity has shifted to the plenum, 
the latter has become a highly valuable school for 
training leaders of the working class, political leaders 
of the working class. New people, tomorrow¹s leaders of 
the working class, are growing up and coming to full 
stature before our very eyes, and in this lies the inestimable 
value of our extended plenary sessions. 
It is noteworthy that the same tendency is to be observed 
in the localities. Decision of major problems is 
passing from the bureaus of the Gubernia Committees 
to the plenums. The plenums are being enlarged; they 
hold longer sessions, to which all the best forces in the 
gubernia are invited, and in this way the plenums are 
becoming schools for training local and regional leaders. 
This tendency in the localities, in the gubernias and 
uyezds, must be made the regular practice. 
Thirdly, inner-Party life has in this past year been 
exceedingly intense, full-blooded, one might say. We Bolsheviks 
are accustomed to coping with big tasks, and 
often we fail to notice the greatness of the tasks we perform. 
Such facts as the discussion and the Lenin Enrol

THIRTEENTH CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 221 
ment‹and this requires no proof‹are developments of 
the greatest moment for the country and the Party, and, 
obviously, they could not but animate inner-Party life. 
What is the significance of these two facts? They 
show that our Party, which has gone through a discussion, 
is as firm as a rock. They show that our Party, 
which, by the will and with the approval of the entire 
working class, has admitted 200,000 new members, is 
essentially an elected Party, the elected organ of the 
working class. 
8. CONCLUSIONS 
1. Of the mass organisations surrounding our Party, 
special attention should be paid to the co-operatives and 
the organisations of working women and peasant women. 
I have singled out these organisations because at the 
present juncture they are the weakest points. 
a) It is beyond doubt that the apparatus of the consumers¹ 
co-operatives, whose function it is to link state 
industry with the peasant economy, has not been on 
a level with the tasks confronting it. This is borne out 
by the irrefutable fact that the peasant sector in the 
consumers¹ co-operatives accounts for only one-third 
of the total membership. We must bring about a 
situation in which the peasants will have their due 
place in the consumers¹ co-operatives. Communists must 
shift the centre of their activities from the gubernias 
to the uyezds and districts in order to build 
up contact with the mass of the peasants and in this way 
convert the consumers¹ co-operatives into a connecting 
link between industry and the peasant economy.

J. V. S T A L I N 222 
b) Matters are no better in regard to the agricultural 
co-operatives. Confused figures and a drop in 
membership during the past year are facts that call for 
serious consideration. Here too, as in the consumers¹ 
co-operatives, Communists must shift the centre of their 
activities to the uyezds and districts, closer to the peasant 
masses; they must make i t their aim to ensure 
that the local offices of the Selskosoyuz are not used 
as a shield for kulak domination. But that is not enough. 
We must reinforce the leading bodies of the Selskosoyuz 
with communist forces, for of late its work has begun 
seriously to deteriorate. 
c) The position is worse with regard to work among 
women. True, the delegate meetings of working women 
and peasant women are growing in number and scope, but 
what our forces active in this field have accomplished by 
way of agitation is far from having been consolidated organisationally. 
In this respect we have not achieved even 
a hundredth part of the necessary minimum. This is 
irrefutably borne out by the percentage of working 
women and peasant women participating in the Soviets, 
the trade unions and the Party. The Party must 
take every measure to make good this deficiency in the 
very near future. We cannot tolerate a situation when 
half of the population of the Soviet Union continues to 
stand aside from the highway of Soviet and Party development. 
d) The voluntary public initiative organisations 
merit special attention, particularly the organisations of 
worker and peasant correspondents. These have a great 
future. Given the proper conditions for development, 
they can become a highly important and powerful me

THIRTEENTH CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 223 
dium for expressing and carrying out the will of proletarian 
public opinion. You are aware of the power of 
proletarian public opinion in exposing and rectifying 
shortcomings in our Soviet public life. It is much 
more effective than administrative pressure. That is 
why the Party must render these organisations every 
assistance. 
2. Special attention should be paid to the state apparatus. 
That the position in this sphere is unsatisfactory 
is hardly open to challenge. 
a) Lenin¹s behests to reduce and simplify the state 
apparatus have been fulfilled only in part, to a 
very minute degree. The reduction of the apparatus of 
the People¹s Commissariats by 200,000 or 300,000 employees, 
while at the same time a new apparatus‹the 
trusts, syndicates, etc.‹has grown up alongside them, 
cannot properly be regarded as either a reduction or 
a simplification of the apparatus. The Party must take 
every measure to ensure that Lenin¹s behests in this 
sphere are carried out with an iron hand. 
b) I have given you figures showing that the proportion 
of non-Party people participating in our 
Soviets is extremely low. Comrades, this must 
not continue; we cannot go on building the new state 
in this way. Serious constructive work is impossible 
without devoting special attention to drawing non- 
Party people into Soviet activities in the gubernias and 
uyezds. Various methods might be suggested. One expedient 
method might be the following: the organisation, 
under the different departments of the gubernia and 
uyezd Soviets, of groups, or better still, of regularly 
convened conferences on concrete questions for non

J. V. S T A L I N 224 
Party people‹workers in the towns and peasants in 
the uyezds‹in order to draw non-Party elements into 
active participation in the various branches of administration 
and subsequently to select the best of these non- 
Party workers and peasants, the more capable, and 
appoint them to government posts. Without this extension 
of the base of our town and uyezd Soviets, without 
extending the base of Soviet work and drawing non- 
Party people into it, the Soviets stand in danger of a 
grave setback in weight and influence. 
c) There is an opinion current in our Party that genuine 
Party work is confined to activities in the Gubernia, 
Regional and Uyezd Party Committees and in the Party 
units. As for any other form of work, it is alleged that it 
is not genuine Party work. People working in the trusts 
and syndicates are often ridiculed: ³They have lost 
contact with the Party,² it is said. (Voice: ³They are 
purged.²) Some comrades, in both economic bodies 
and Party organisations, should be purged. However, I 
am dealing not with the exception, but with the typical 
case. It is customary among us to divide Party work 
into two categories: a higher category comprising genuine 
Party work in the Gubernia and Regional Committees, 
in the Party units, in the Central Committee; and 
a lower category referred to as Party work only in quotation 
marks, which embraces work in all Soviet bodies, 
and above all in trading bodies. Comrades, such an 
attitude to business executives is profoundly contrary 
to Leninism. Every such business executive working even 
in the most wretched of shops, in the most wretched 
of trading establishments, if he advances and improves 
its work, is a genuine Party worker and deserves every

THIRTEENTH CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 225 
support from the Party. We shall not be able to take 
a single step forward in our constructive work if this 
aristocratic, intelligentsia approach to trade persists. 
I gave a lecture at the Sverdlov University recently, 
and in the course of it I said that we might, perhaps, 
have to transfer some 10,000 Communists from Party 
work or industry to trade. They laughed. They don¹t 
want to trade! Yet it should be perfectly clear that all 
our discussions on socialist construction may degenerate 
into so much empty talk unless we eradicate from the 
Party these aristocratic-intelligentsia prejudices about 
trade and unless we, Communists, master all aspects 
of trade. 
d) Comrades, no constructive work, no state activity, 
no planning is conceivable without proper accounting. 
And accounting is inconceivable without statistics. 
Without statistics, accounting cannot advance one inch. 
Rykov recently told a conference that during the War 
Communism period he had a statistician working in the 
Supreme Council of National Economy who would submit 
one set of figures on a given subject one day, and 
a different set the next day. Unfortunately, we still 
have statisticians of that type. The nature of statistics 
is such that separate components make up a continuous 
chain and if one of its links is defective, the entire 
work may be spoiled. In bourgeois countries the 
statistician possesses a certain minimum of professional 
pride. He will not lie. Whatever his political beliefs and 
leanings, when it comes to facts and figures he is prepared 
to lay down his life rather than submit untrue data. 
We could do with more of such bourgeois statisticians, 
people with self-respect and possessing a certain minimum

J. V. S T A L I N 226 
of professional pride! Unless we have this approach 
to our statistical work, our constructive work will not 
advance one inch. 
The same must be said of bookkeeping. No branch of 
economic activity can make headway without proper 
bookkeeping. But unfortunately our accountants do not 
always possess the elementary merits of the ordinary 
honest, bourgeois accountant. I have a high regard for 
some of our accountants; among them are honest and 
devoted workers. But the fact remains that we have 
also worthless accountants capable of concocting any 
sort of statement and who are more dangerous than 
counter-revolutionaries. Without overcoming these defects, 
without eliminating them, we cannot advance 
either the country¹s economy or its trade. 
e) The percentage of workers and of Communists 
in the directing bodies of some state institutions is 
still at a minimum level and inadequate. This defect 
is very evident in the case of our directing bodies 
and of the foreign representations of our trading organisations 
(foreign trade, home trade, syndicates) and 
credit institutions, which at the present time are of decisive 
importance for the life and development of our 
economy, and, above all, of our state industry. The Party 
must take every measure to fill this gap. Otherwise there 
can be no question of implementing the Party¹s economic 
and political directives. 
f) Up till now a key problem in economic development 
has been to organise the trusts and give them 
proper shape. Now that the focus has shifted to trade, 
questions arise concerning the organisation of mixed 
and joint-stock companies37 for home and foreign

THIRTEENTH CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 227 
trade. Practice shows that, while we have coped with 
the problem of the trusts, our organisations are sadly 
lacking when it comes to solving the problems connected 
with mixed and joint-stock companies. There is a tendency 
to organise trade enterprises of a type that would 
reduce the effectiveness of state control in this important 
sphere to a minimum. There can be no doubt that 
the Party will vigorously combat such tendencies. 
3. We must continue to improve the composition of 
the Party generally, and of its leading bodies in particular. 
Under no circumstances should the Party cadres 
be regarded as a sort of closed corporation. They should 
be widened step by step by drawing in the younger 
Party element, which must serve to replenish the cadres. 
Otherwise, there is no point in having Party cadres. 
4. As regards agitation activities: 
a) The position with regard to political literacy among 
Party members is bad (60 per cent politically illiterate). 
The Lenin Enrolment will increase the proportion. 
Systematic work is required to eliminate this drawback, 
and the task is to go ahead with such work. 
b) The position with regard to the cinema is bad. The 
cinema is a most valuable means of mass agitation. 
The task is to take this matter in hand. 
c) The press is making progress, but not enough. 
The task is to raise the circulation of Krestyanskaya 
Gazeta38 to one million, of Pravda to 600,000, and to 
start a popular paper for the Lenin Enrolment, building 
up its circulation to at least half a million. 
d) Publication of wall newspapers is making progress, 
but not enough. The task is to support the wallnewspaper 
correspondents and to go ahead with the work.

J. V. S T A L I N 228 
e) Work in the countryside is in a bad state. Agitation 
in the countryside must be chiefly concrete. It 
should consist in rendering all possible assistance to 
the poor and middle peasant elements, including 
preferential credits; development of rudimentary collective 
farming (not communes) along the lines of the 
Committees of Peasant poor39 in the Ukraine, where 
there are some 5,000 collective farms; in recruiting the 
peasantry into the co-operatives, primarily the agricultural 
co-operatives. Gaining a dominant influence in 
the peasant committees must be considered a task of 
special importance. Nor should we overlook the territorial 
formations,40 which offer very important opportunities 
for agitation in the countryside. 
5. As regards registration, allocation and promotion 
of Party and non-Party forces: 
a) Proper registration has been more or less achieved. 
b) Things are somewhat worse with regard to allocation 
of cadres, for the principal tasks involved in 
regrouping our forces in the new situation of internal 
development‹tasks outlined by Lenin at the Eleventh 
Congress41‹have not yet been fulfilled. The immediate 
task of bringing a maximum number of our best 
forces into the various trading organisations still awaits 
solution. 
Properly speaking, in the past year the Registration 
and Allocation Department served organisations of the 
Supreme Council of National Economy and the People¹s 
Commissariat of Finance, especially its tax-collecting 
apparatus, and supplied workers mainly to these organisations. 
The task now is to turn our attention to the 
trade and credit organisations and give them priority

THIRTEENTH CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 229 
over other institutions in the allocation of forces. Some 
5,000 Communists may be required here. 
Simultaneously, the task is to supplement the existing 
method of allocating forces with new methods: 
voluntary enlistment, enrolment of volunteers to organise 
the work in especially important sectors of Soviet 
affairs. This method is directly related to the question 
of organising exemplary work in certain districts, 
a thing that cannot be dispensed with at the present 
stage. Lenin¹s idea concerning exemplary work, 
outlined by him in The Tax in Kind,42 a must be put into 
effect. 
c) Special attention must be devoted to the promotion 
of new forces, Party and non-Party. The method 
of advancing new people only by appointment from 
above is not sufficient. It must be supplemented by 
methods of promoting people from below, in the course 
of practical work, in the course of drawing new forces 
into our practical activities. In this respect, the production 
conferences in the factories and trusts should 
play a big part in advancing factory workers to responsible 
posts in industrial plants and trusts. We must 
develop the working groups attached to the various 
departments of the Soviets in the gubernia and uyezd 
towns, converting them into periodical conferences that 
discuss concrete questions and drawing into the work of 
these conferences both members and, especially, nonmembers 
of the Soviets‹workers and peasants, both men 
and women. Only in the course of these broad practical 
activities will we be able to promote new forces from 
among the non-Party workers and peasants. The great wave 
of the Lenin Enrolment in the cities and the enhanced

J. V. S T A L I N 230 
political activity of the peasantry show beyond all doubt 
that this method of promoting new forces is bound to 
have great results. 
6. Two conclusions regarding inner-Party life: 
a) The so-called ³principle² of broadening the Party 
Central Committee has proved correct. Experience has 
shown the immense value of broadening the Central 
Committee, it has shown that the comrades who upheld 
the ³principle² of narrowing down the Central Committee 
were taking a wrong course. 
b) It is now clear to all that the opposition was 
entirely wrong in asserting, during the discussion, that 
the Party was in a state of disintegration. You are not 
likely to find in our Party a single organisation of any 
importance which, observing the development of inner- 
Party life and the Party¹s powerful growth, would not say 
that the people who only recently were croaking that our 
Party was heading for ruin, did not, in actual fact, know 
the Party, were far removed from it, and were very reminiscent 
of people who ought rightly to be described as 
aliens in the Party. 
To sum up: our Party is growing; it is forging ahead; 
it is learning efficient administration; it is becoming 
the most influential organ of the working class. The 
Lenin Enrolment is a direct indication of this. (Prolonged 
applause.)

REPLY TO THE DISCUSSION 
May 27 
Comrades, I found no objections in any of the speeches 
to the Central Committee¹s organisational report. I take 
this to mean that the congress agrees with the conclusions 
of that report. (Applause.) 
In my report, I deliberately refrained from discussing 
our inner-Party disagreements. I did not touch on them 
because I did not wish to re-open wounds which, so it 
seemed, had healed. But since Trotsky and Preobrazhensky 
have touched on these questions, making a number 
of inaccurate statements and throwing down a 
challenge‹it would not be right to be silent. In this 
situation silence would not be understood. 
Comrade Krupskaya has objected here to repetition 
of the debate on our disagreements. I am absolutely 
opposed to such repetition and that is precisely why 
I did not touch on the disagreements in my report. But 
since the comrades of the opposition have brought up 
the subject and have thrown down a challenge, we have 
no right to be silent. 
In speaking of our disagreements, both Trotsky and 
Preobrazhensky try to focus the attention of the congress 
on one resolution, that of December 5. They forget 
that there is another resolution as well, on the results

J. V. S T A L I N 232 
of the discussion.43 They forget that there has been a 
Party conference and that the Central Committee¹s December 
5 resolution was followed by a new wave of discussion, 
the results of which were appraised in a special 
resolution of the Thirteenth Conference. They forget that 
hushing up the Thirteenth Conference cannot but have 
its repercussions for the opposition. 
I draw the attention of the congress to the fact that 
the conference adopted one resolution on economic policy 
and two on Party affairs. Why? There was one resolution, 
endorsed by the entire Party and adopted by the 
Central Committee on December 5, and then it was 
found necessary to adopt a second resolution on the same 
question, on the petty-bourgeois deviation. Why this 
affliction? What is the explanation? The explanation 
is that the whole discussion went through two periods. 
The first concluded with the unanimously adopted resolution 
of December 5, and the second with the resolution 
on the petty-bourgeois deviation. At that time, 
i.e., in the first period, we believed that the December 5 
resolution would probably put an end to the controversy 
in the Party, and that was why last time, in my report 
at the Thirteenth Conference, when dealing with this 
period, I said that, if the opposition had so wished, the 
December 5 resolution could have terminated the struggle 
within the Party. That was what I said, and that was 
what we all believed. But the point is that the discussion 
was not brought to a close with that period. After 
the December 5 resolution Trotsky¹s letters appeared‹ 
a new platform which raised new issues; and this ushered 
in a fresh wave of discussion, more violent than the preceding 
one. It was this that destroyed the opportunity

THIRTEENTH CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 233 
of establishing peace in the Party. This was the second 
period, which the oppositionists now try to hush up and 
by-pass. 
The point is that there is a vast difference between 
the discussion in the second period and that in the first, 
where the discussion found its reflection in the December 5 
resolution. That resolution did not raise the question 
of a degeneration of the cadres. Trotsky, with whom 
we jointly framed that resolution, did not so much as 
hint at a degeneration of the cadres. Evidently, he was 
saving this additional issue for his later pronouncements. 
Further, the December 5 resolution does not raise the 
question of the student youth being the truest barometer. 
This question, too, Trotsky was apparently keeping 
in reserve for fresh discussion pronouncements. In the 
December 5 resolution there is nothing of the tendency 
to attack the apparatus, nor of the demands for punitive 
measures against the Party apparatus, about which 
Trotsky spoke at such length in his subsequent letters. 
Lastly, in the December 5 resolution there is not even a 
hint about groups being necessary, although this question, 
the question of groups, is one on which Trotsky 
spoke at great length in his subsequent letters. 
There you have the immense difference between the 
stand taken by the opposition prior to December 5 and 
the stand its leaders took after December 5. 
Now Trotsky and Preobrazhensky try to hush up 
and hide their second platform, the one that figured 
in the second period of the discussion, in the belief, evidently, 
that they can outwit the Party. No, you will not 
succeed! You cannot deceive the congress with your 
none-too-clever stratagems and diplomacy. I do not

J. V. S T A L I N 234 
doubt that the congress will state its opinion both on 
the first stage of the discussion, summed up in the December 
5 resolution, and on the second stage, summed 
up in the conference resolution on the petty-bourgeois 
deviation. 
These two resolutions are two parts of a single whole‹ 
the discussion. And whoever thinks he can deceive 
the congress by confusing these two parts is mistaken. 
The Party has matured; its political understanding is 
at a higher level, and it is not to be tricked by diplomacy. 
This the opposition fails to understand, and that 
is the sum and substance of its mistake. 
Let us examine who has proved right on the issues 
raised in the opposition platform after December 5. Who 
has proved right on the four new issues brought up in 
Trotsky¹s letters? 
First issue‹degeneration of the cadres. We have 
all demanded and continue to demand that facts be 
adduced to prove that the cadres are degenerating. But 
no facts have been produced, nor could they be, because 
no such facts exist. And when we looked into the matter 
properly we all found that there was no degeneration, but 
that there was undoubtedly a deviation towards pettybourgeois 
policy on the part of certain opposition leaders. 
Who, then, has proved to be right? Not the opposition, 
it would seem. 
Second issue‹the student youth which, supposedly, 
is the truest barometer. Who has proved right on this 
point? Again, it would seem, not the opposition. If we 
look at the growth of our Party in this period, at the admission 
of 200,000 new members, it follows that the 
barometer must be sought not among the student youth,

THIRTEENTH CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 235 
but in the ranks of the proletariat, and that the Party 
must orientate itself not on the student youth, but 
on the proletarian core of the Party. Two hundred thousand 
new members‹that is the barometer. Here, too, the 
opposition has proved wrong. 
Third issue‹punitive measures against the apparatus, 
attack on the Party apparatus. Who has proved 
right? Again, not the opposition. I t furled its flag 
of attack on the apparatus and passed to the defensive. 
All of you here have seen how it tried to wriggle out, 
how it beat a disorderly retreat in the fight against 
the Party apparatus. 
Fourth issue‹factions and groups. Trotsky has announced 
that he is resolutely opposed to groups. That is 
all well and good. But if we must go into the history of 
the issue, then allow me to re-establish certain facts. 
In December a sub-commission of the Party Central 
Committee framed the resolution published on December 
5. This sub-commission consisted of three members: 
Trotsky, Kamenev, Stalin. Have you noticed that there 
is no mention of groups in the December 5 resolution? 
It deals with the prohibition of factions but says nothing 
about prohibiting groups. There is only a reference to 
the well-known Tenth Congress resolution on Party 
unity. How is this to be explained? Was it an accident? 
No, it was not. Kamenev and I firmly insisted on the 
prohibition of groups. Trotsky protested against their 
prohibition, and his protest was tantamount to an ultimatum, 
for he declared that in such a case he could 
not vote for the resolution. And so we confined ourselves 
to a reference to the Tenth Congress resolution, which 
Trotsky, apparently, had not read at the time, and

J. V. S T A L I N 236 
which provides not only for the prohibition of factions, 
but for the prohibition of groups as well. (Laughter, 
applause.) At that time Trotsky was in favour of freedom 
of groups. At this congress he has praised the December 5 
resolution. But in his letter to the R.C.P.(B.) Central 
Committee of December 9, that is four days after the 
adoption of the resolution on Party affairs, Trotsky 
wrote: ³I am especially alarmed by the purely formal 
attitude of the Political Bureau members on the question 
of groups and factional formations.² What do you think 
of that? Here is a man who extols the resolution but who, 
it turns out, is especially alarmed in his soul by the Political 
Bureau¹s attitude on the question of groups and 
factions. This does not seem to indicate that he was then 
in favour of prohibiting groups. No, Trotsky at that time 
was in favour of the formation and freedom of groups. 
Further, who does not remember the resolution Preobrazhensky 
submitted in Moscow, demanding that the 
question of factions, which had been decided by the 
Tenth Party Congress, be given a more precise formulation 
in the sense of removing some of the restrictions? 
Here in Moscow, everyone remembers this. And is there 
anyone of you who does not remember the newspaper 
articles in which Preobrazhensky demanded that we 
revive the order of things which existed in the Party 
at the time of the Brest Peace? Yet we know that in the 
Brest period the Party was compelled to permit the 
existence of factions‹as we all know very well. And who 
does not remember that at the Thirteenth Conference, 
when I proposed the simplest thing‹to remind the Party 
membership of point seven of the resolution on unity, 
on the prohibition of groups‹who does not remember

THIRTEENTH CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 237 
how all the oppositionists raged, insisting that this point 
should not be introduced? Consequently, on this issue 
the opposition¹s attitude has been wholly and entirely 
one of freedom for groups. It thought that it could lull 
the vigilance of the Party by declaring that it was demanding 
freedom not for factions, but for groups. If 
today we are told that the opposition is against groups, 
that is all well and good. But this certainly cannot be 
called an offensive on their part: it is a disorderly retreat, 
it is a sign that the Central Committee was right on this 
issue too. 
After this review of the facts, permit me, comrades, 
to say a few words on certain fundamental mistakes made 
by Trotsky and Preobrazhensky in their utterances on 
questions of Party organisation. 
Trotsky has said that the essence of democracy can 
be reduced to the question of generations. That is wrong, 
wrong in principle. The essence of democracy can by no 
means be reduced to that. The question of generations 
is a secondary one. The life of our Party, and figures 
relating to it, show that the younger generation of the 
Party is being drawn step by step into the cadres‹the 
cadres are being extended from the ranks of the youth. 
That always has been, and will continue to be, the Party¹s 
line. Only those who regard our cadres as a closed 
entity, as a privileged caste which does not admit new 
members to its ranks; only those who regard our cadres 
as a sort of officer corps of the old regime which looks 
down on all other Party members as ³beneath its dignity,² 
only those who want to drive a wedge between the cadres 
and the younger Party members‹only they can make the 
question of generations in the Party the pivotal question

J. V. S T A L I N 238 
of democracy. The essence of democracy lies not in the 
question of generations, but in the question of independent 
activity, of members of the Party taking an active 
part in its leadership. It is in this way, and in this way 
alone, that the question of democracy can be presented 
if, of course, we are discussing not a party with formal 
democracy, but a genuinely proletarian party linked by 
indissoluble bonds with the mass of the working class. 
The second question. The greatest danger, Trotsky 
says, is bureaucratisation of the Party apparatus. This 
too is wrong. The danger resides not in this, but in the 
possibility of the Party¹s actual isolation from the non- 
Party masses. You can have a party with a democratically 
constructed apparatus, but if the Party is not 
linked with the working class this democracy will be 
worthless, it won¹t be worth a brass farthing. The Party 
exists for the class. So long as it is linked with the class, 
maintains contact with it, enjoys prestige and respect 
among the non-Party masses, it can exist and develop 
even if it has bureaucratic shortcomings. But in the 
absence of all this the Party is doomed, no matter 
what kind of Party organisation you build‹bureaucratic 
or democratic. The Party is part of the class; it 
exists for the class, not for itself. 
The third contention, also erroneous in principle: 
the Party, Trotsky says, makes no mistakes. That is 
wrong. The Party not infrequently makes mistakes. Ilyich 
taught us to teach the Party, on the basis of its own mistakes, 
how to exercise correct leadership. If the Party made 
no mistakes there would be nothing from which to teach 
it. It is our task to detect these mistakes, to lay bare 
their roots and to show the Party and the working class

THIRTEENTH CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 239 
how we came to make them and how we should avoid 
repeating them in future. The development of the Party 
would be impossible without this. The development of 
Party leaders and cadres would be impossible without 
this, for they are developed and trained in the struggle to 
combat and overcome their mistakes. It seems to me that 
this statement of Trotsky¹s is a kind of compliment, 
accompanied by an attempt‹an unsuccessful one it is 
true‹to jeer at the Party. 
Next‹about Preobrazhensky. He spoke of the purge. 
Preobrazhensky feels that the purge is a weapon used 
by the Party majority against the opposition. Evidently 
he does not approve of the methods employed in the 
purge. This is a question of principle. Preobrazhensky¹s 
profound mistake is his failure to understand that the 
Party cannot strengthen its ranks without periodical 
purges of unstable elements. Comrade Lenin taught us 
that the Party can strengthen itself only if it steadily 
rids itself of the unstable elements which penetrate, 
and will continue to penetrate, its ranks. We would be 
going against Leninism if we were to repudiate Party 
purges in general. As for the present purge, what is wrong 
with it? It is said that individual mistakes have been 
made. Certainly they have. But has there ever been a 
big undertaking that was free from individual mistakes? 
Never. Individual mistakes may and will occur; but in 
the main the purge is correct. I have been told with 
what fear and trepidation some non-proletarian elements 
among the intellectuals and office employees awaited 
the purge. Here is a scene that was described to me: 
a group of people are sitting in an office, waiting to be 
called before the purging commission. It is a Party unit

J. V. S T A L I N 240 
in a Soviet institution. In another room is the purging 
commission. One of the members of the Party unit comes 
rushing out of the commission room, perspiring. He is 
asked what happened, but all he can say is: ³Let me 
get my breath, l e t me get my breath. I¹m a l l in.² 
(Laughter.) The purge may be bad for the kind of people 
who suffer and perspire like that; but for the Party it 
is a very good thing. (Applause.) We still have, unfortunately, 
a certain number of Party members receiving 
1,000 or 2,000 rubles a month, who are considered to be 
Party members but who forget that the Party exists. 
I know of a Party unit at one of the Commissariats, in 
which men of this type work. The members of this unit 
include several chauffeurs, and the unit selected one of 
them to sit on the purging commission. This evoked no 
little grumbling, such as saying that a chauffeur should 
not be allowed to purge Soviet big-wigs. There have 
been cases like that here in Moscow. Party members who 
have evidently lost contact with the Party are indignant, 
they cannot stomach the fact that ³some chauffeur² 
will put them through the purge. Such Party members 
must be educated and re-educated, sometimes by 
expulsion from the Party. The chief thing about the 
purge is that it makes people of this kind feel that there 
exists a master, that there is the Party, which can call 
them to account for all sins committed against it. It 
seems to me absolutely necessary that this master go 
through the Party ranks with a broom every now and 
again. (Applause.) 
Preobrazhensky says: Your policy is correct, but 
your organisational line is wrong, and therein lies the 
basis of the possible ruin of the Party. That is nonsense,

THIRTEENTH CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 241 
comrades. That a party with a correct policy should perish 
because of shortcomings in its organisational line is 
something that does not happen. It never works out 
that way. The foundation of Party life and Party work 
resides not in the organisational forms it adopts or 
may adopt at any given moment, but in its policy, in 
i t s home and foreign policy. I f the Party¹s policy 
is correct, if it has a correct approach to the political 
and economic issues that are of decisive significance for 
the working class‹then organisational defects cannot be 
of decisive significance; its policy will pull it through. 
That has always been the case, and will continue to be so 
in the future. People who fail to understand this are 
bad Marxists; they forget the very rudiments of Marxism. 
Was the Party right on the issues involved in the 
discussion‹on the economic questions and on the questions 
of Party affairs? Anyone who wants to obtain 
an immediate, concise answer to that should turn to the 
Party and the mass of the workers and put the question: 
how does the mass of non-Party workers regard the 
Party? Is it sympathetic or unsympathetic? If the members 
of the opposition were to put the question that way, 
if they were to ask themselves: how does the working 
class regard the Party‹is it sympathetic or unsympathetic?‹
they would realise that the Party is on the 
correct path. The Lenin Enrolment is the key to an 
understanding of everything involved in the results of the 
discussion. If the working class sends 200,000 of its members 
into the Party, selecting the most upright and 
staunch, this signifies that such a party is invincible 
because it has, in fact, become the elected organ of the 
working class, one that enjoys the undivided confidence

J. V. S T A L I N 
FROM MARX 
TO MAO 
 
NOT FOR 
COMMERCIAL 
DISTRIBUTION 
242 
of the working class. Such a party will live and strike 
fear into its enemies; such a party cannot disintegrate. 
The trouble with our opposition i s that i t did not 
approach Party problems and the results of the discussion 
from the standpoint of the Marxist, who appraises 
the weight of the Party in the light of its influence 
among the masses‹for the Party exists for the 
masses, and not vice versa‹but approached them 
from the formal standpoint, from the standpoint of 
³pure² apparatus. To find a simple and direct clue 
to understanding the results of the discussion one 
must turn not to this babbling about the apparatus, 
but to the 200,000 who have joined the Party and 
who have demonstrated its profound democracy. References 
to democracy in the speeches of the oppositionists 
are just empty talk. But when the working class 
sends 200,000 new members into the Party, that is 
real democracy. Our Party has become the elected 
organ of the working class. Point me out another such 
party. You cannot point one out because so far there 
does not exist one. But, strange as it may seem, even 
such a powerful party as ours is not to the liking of the 
oppositionists. Where on this earth will they find a better 
one? I am afraid they will have to migrate to Mars 
in their search for a better party. (Applause.) 
The last question‹that of the opposition¹s pettybourgeois 
deviation; the assertion that the charge of a 
petty-bourgeois deviation is unjust. Is that true? No, it 
is not. How did the charge arise, what is the foundation 
for it? It is founded on the fact that in their unbridled 
agitation for democracy in the Party the oppositionists 
have unwittingly, without so desiring, served as a sort

THIRTEENTH CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 243 
of mouthpiece for that new bourgeoisie which does not 
care a hang about democracy in our Party, but which 
would like, and very much like, to obtain democracy 
for itself in the country. The section of the Party which 
has raised such a clamour over questions of democracy 
has unwittingly served as a mouthpiece and vehicle 
for the agitation in the country that emanates from the 
new bourgeoisie and aims at weakening the dictatorship, 
at ³broadening² the Soviet constitution and at reestablishing 
political rights for the exploiters. That is 
the mainspring and secret why members of the opposition, 
who undoubtedly love the Party and so on and 
so forth, have without themselves noticing it become a 
mouthpiece for elements outside the Party, elements 
which seek to weaken and disintegrate the dictatorship. 
No wonder the sympathies of the Mensheviks and 
Socialist-Revolutionaries are with the opposition. Is 
that accidental? No, it is not. The alignment of forces 
internationally is such that every attempt to weaken 
the authority of our Party and the stability of the 
dictatorship in our country will inevitably be seized upon 
by the enemies of the revolution as a definite gain for 
them, irrespective of whether such attempts are made 
by our opposition or by the Socialist-Revolutionaries 
and Mensheviks. Whoever fails to understand this, fails 
to grasp the logic of factional struggle within our Party, 
fails to realise that the outcome of this struggle depends 
not on personalities and desires, but on the results produced 
in the sum total of the struggle between the 
Soviet and anti-Soviet elements. That is the basis of the 
fact that in the opposition we are dealing with a pettybourgeois 
deviation.

J. V. S T A L I N 244 
Lenin once said about Party discipline and the unity 
of our ranks: ³Whoever weakens in the least the iron 
discipline of the Party of the proletariat (especially during 
the time of its dictatorship), actually aids the bourgeoisie 
against the proletariat² (see Vol. XXV, p. 190). 
Is there any need to prove, after this, that the comrades 
of the opposition, by their attacks on the Moscow organisation 
and the Party¹s Central Committee, have been 
weakening Party discipline and undermining the foundations 
of the dictatorship, for the Party is the basic core 
of the dictatorship? 
That is why I think that the Thirteenth Conference 
was right in declaring that we are dealing here with a 
deviation towards petty-bourgeois policy. This is not 
as yet a petty-bourgeois policy. By no means! At the 
Tenth Congress, Lenin explained that a deviation is 
something as yet unconsummated, something that has 
not assumed definite shape. And if you, comrades of 
the opposition, do not persist in this petty-bourgeois 
deviation, in these small mistakes‹everything will be 
rectified and the Party¹s activities will go forward. 
But if you do persist, the petty-bourgeois deviation may 
develop into a petty-bourgeois policy. Consequently, 
it all depends on you, comrades of the opposition. 
What are the conclusions? The conclusions are that 
we must continue to conduct inner-Party work on the 
basis of the complete unity of the Party. Look at this 
congress, at its solid support of the Central Committee 
line‹there you have Party unity. The opposition represents 
an insignificant minority in our Party. That our 
Party is united, that it will continue to be united, is 
demonstrated by the present congress, by its unanim

THIRTEENTH CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 245 
ity and solidity. Whether we will have unity with that 
insignificant group in the Party known as the opposition, 
depends on them. We want to work in harmony with 
the opposition. Last year, at the height of the discussion, 
we said that joint work with the opposition was necessary. 
We re-affirm this here today. But whether this unity will 
be achieved, I do not know, for in future unity will 
depend entirely on the opposition. In the present instance 
unity comes as the result of the interaction of two 
factors, the Party majority and minority. The majority 
wants united activity. Whether the minority sincerely 
wants it, I do not know. That depends entirely on the 
comrades of the opposition. 
Conclusion. The conclusion is that we must endorse 
the Thirteenth Conference resolutions and approve the 
activity of the Central Committee. I do not doubt that 
the congress will endorse these resolutions and approve 
the political and organisational activity of the Central 
Committee. (Prolonged applause.)

THE RESULTS OF THE THIRTEENTH 
CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P. (B.) 
Report Delivered at the C.C., R.C.P.(B.) 
Courses for Secretaries of Uyezd Party Committees 
June 17, 1924 
Comrades, I do not propose to give a detailed analysis 
of the Thirteenth Congress resolutions. There are 
quite a number of them‹they make up a whole pamphlet 
‹and it is hardly possible to examine them now in detail, 
the more so because neither you nor I can spare the 
time just now. I think, therefore, it will be more expedient 
to outline and explain the basic starting points 
in order to facilitate your own study of the resolutions 
when you return home. 
And so, a detailed study of the Thirteenth Congress 
resolutions will reveal that the manifold questions they 
deal with can be reduced to four basic questions which 
run through all the resolutions like a red thread. 
What are these questions? 
The first basic question, or first group of questions, 
concerns the external position of our Republic, the consolidation 
of its international position. 
The second basic question, or second group of questions, 
concerns the bond between state industry and 
the peasant economy, the alliance between the proletariat 
and peasantry. 
The third group of questions embraces the education 
and re-education of the working masses in the spirit of 
the proletarian dictatorship and socialism. Included in

RESULTS OF THE XIII CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 247 
this group are such questions as those of the state apparatus, 
work among the peasants, among the women toilers 
and among the youth. 
Lastly, the fourth group of questions concerns the 
Party itself, its internal life, its existence and development. 
I shall deal especially, in the concluding part of my 
report, with the tasks of Party workers in the uyezds in 
connection with the Thirteenth Congress decisions. 
FOREIGN AFFAIRS 
What new developments in Soviet Russia¹s international 
position has the past year produced? What basic, 
new developments in the international field must be 
taken into account in proceeding from the past year to 
the new‹developments which the Thirteenth Congress 
could not but take into account? 
These new developments consist, firstly, in the fact 
that during the past year we have had occasion to witness 
a number of attempts at the open fascisation of internal 
policy in the West-European countries; attempts that 
have proved futile and miscarried. Leaving aside Italy, 
where fascism is disintegrating, attempts to fascise European 
policy in the main countries, France and Britain, 
have miscarried, and the authors of these attempts, 
Poincaré and Curzon, have, to put it plainly, come a 
cropper, they have been thrown overboard. 
This is the first new development of the past year. 
The second new development of the past year was 
a series of attempts by the bellicose imperialists of Britain 
and France to isolate our country, attempts that

J. V. S T A L I N 248 
were defeated. There can hardly be any doubt that Poincaré¹s 
numerous machinations against the Soviet Union, 
and Curzon¹s notorious ultimatum, were intended to 
isolate our country. But what happened? Instead of 
isolation, the result has been the factual recognition of 
the Soviet Union. More, instead of isolation of the Soviet 
Union, the result has been isolation of the isolators, 
the resignation of Poincaré and Curzon. Our country has 
proved to be a more weighty factor than some of the 
older imperialist politicians were prone to believe. 
This is the second new development of the past year 
in the sphere of foreign policy. 
What is the explanation of all this? 
Some are inclined to attribute it to the wisdom of 
our policy. I do not deny that our policy has been, if 
not wise, at any rate correct, and this has been confirmed 
by the Thirteenth Congress. But neither the wisdom 
nor the correctness of our policy can be regarded as sufficient 
explanation. The explanation lies not so much in 
the correctness of our policy, as in the situation that 
has arisen in Europe of late, and which determined the 
success of our policy. Three circumstances should be 
noted in this connection. 
Firstly. The impotence of the imperialist powers to 
cope with the results of their war victories and to establish 
anything resembling a tolerable peace in Europe. 
They are incapable of developing further without plundering 
the defeated countries and colonies, without conflicts 
and clashes among themselves over division of the 
loot. Hence, the new armaments. Hence, the danger of 
another war. But the masses do not want war, for they 
have not yet forgotten the sacrifices they had to make

RESULTS OF THE XIII CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 249 
for the sake of the capitalists¹ profits. Hence, the growing 
resentment which the policy of bellicose imperialism is 
evoking among the peoples. 
That is the reason for the inner weakness of imperialism. 
Why were Curzon and Poincaré thrown out? Because 
public opinion regards them as instigators of another 
war. Because by their frankly bellicose policy they 
aroused mass resentment against imperialism generally, 
and thereby created a danger for imperialism. 
Secondly. The consolidation of Soviet power inside the 
country. The capitalist states counted on the collapse of 
Soviet power inside the country. Divine truth, the psalmist 
tells us, is sometimes uttered through the mouths of 
infants. Well, if Western imperialism is to be regarded as a 
divinity, then it is only natural that it should be unable to 
do without an infant of its own. And so, it has found one, 
in the person of Benes, the not unknown Czechoslovak 
Minister of Foreign Affairs. Through him it announced 
to the world that there was no need to hurry with the 
recognition of the Union of Republics, in view of the 
instability of Soviet power, and that since the latter would 
soon be replaced by a new, bourgeois-democratic government, 
it would be better to ³abstain,² for the time being, 
from establishing ³normal relations² with the Soviet 
Union. That was how things stood only a short while ago. 
But the ³truth² of imperialism, proclaimed to the world 
through the mouth of its infant, hardly lasted a couple of 
months, for, as we know, a number of countries soon 
abandoned the policy of ³abstention² for one of ³recognition.²
44 Why? Because there is no going against the facts, 
and the facts are that Soviet power is as firm as a rock. 
To begin with, the man in the street, no matter how naive

J. V. S T A L I N 250 
he may be politically, could not but notice that the 
Soviet government is, evidently, more stable than any 
bourgeois government, for in these seven years of proletarian 
dictatorship bourgeois governments have come 
and gone, but the Soviet government remains. Further, 
the man in the street could not but notice our economic 
progress, if only from the steady increase of our exports. 
Is additional proof required that all these circumstances 
speak in favour of the Soviet Union, not against it? We 
are accused of conducting propaganda in Western Europe 
against capitalism. I must say that there is no need 
for us to conduct such propaganda; we do not need it. 
The very existence of the Soviet regime, its growth, 
its material prosperity, its indubitable consolidation, 
are all most effective propaganda among the European 
workers in favour of Soviet power. Any worker who 
comes to the Soviet land and takes a look at our proletarian 
order of things will not fail to see what Soviet 
power is, and what a working class in power is capable 
of accomplishing. This is indeed real propaganda, but 
propaganda by facts, which has a much greater effect 
on the worker than oral or printed propaganda. We are 
accused of conducting propaganda in the East. That, 
too, is nonsense. There is no need for us to conduct propaganda 
in the East. Any citizen of a dependency or 
colony has only to come to the Soviet Union and see how 
the people run the country, how black and white, Russians 
and non-Russians, people of every colour of skin, 
and of every nationality, have joined together in the 
work of running a great country, to convince himself 
that ours is the only land where the brotherhood of nations 
is not a phrase, but a reality. With such propaganda by

RESULTS OF THE XIII CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 251 
facts as the existence of the Union of Soviet Socialist 
Republics, we require no printed or oral propaganda. 
Thirdly. The increasing weight and prestige of the 
Soviet government, its mounting popularity among the 
masses in the capitalist countries, due first and foremost 
to the fact that ours is the only country in the 
world which is capable of pursuing, and actually is pursuing, 
a policy of peace‹pursuing this policy not hypocritically, 
but honestly and openly, resolutely and consistently. 
Today everyone, both friend and foe, admits 
that ours is the only country that can be rightly called 
the buttress and standard-bearer of the policy of peace 
throughout the world. Does it need to be proved that this 
circumstance was bound to increase support and sympathy 
for the Soviet Union among the European masses? 
Have you noticed that certain European rulers are endeavouring 
to build their careers on ³friendship² with 
the Soviet Union, that even such of them as Mussolini 
are not averse, on occasion, to ³profit² from this ³friendship²? 
This i s a direct indication of the very real 
popularity the Soviet government has won among the 
broad masses in the capitalist countries. More than to 
anything else, however, the Soviet government owes its 
popularity to the policy of peace it has been honestly 
and courageously pursuing amid the difficult conditions 
of capitalist encirclement. 
These, in general outline, are the factors which have 
determined the success of our foreign policy in the past 
year. 
The Thirteenth Congress in its resolution has 
approved the Central Committee¹s policy on foreign affairs. 
What does this imply? It implies that the congress

J. V. S T A L I N 252 
has bound the Party to continue its policy of peace, 
its policy of determined struggle against another war, 
of ruthlessly exposing each and every advocate and 
abettor of new armaments and new conflicts. 
QUESTIONS OF THE BOND BETWEEN TOWN 
AND COUNTRY 
What is meant by the bond between town and 
country? It means constant contact, constant exchange, 
between town and country, between our industry and 
the peasant economy, exchange of the products of our 
industry for the food and raw materials produced by the 
peasant economy. The peasant economy cannot thrive, 
cannot exist, without selling its foodstuffs and raw 
materials in the urban market and obtaining from the 
cities, in exchange, the manufactures and implements 
it requires. Similarly, state industry cannot develop 
without selling its products in the peasant market and 
obtaining from the countryside supplies of food and raw 
materials. Consequently, the home market, and above 
all the peasant market, the peasant economy, is the lifesource 
of our socialist industry. For that reason the 
question of the bond between town and country is 
one that involves the existence of our industry, the 
existence of the proletariat itself; it is a question of 
life or death for our Republic, a question of the victory 
of socialism in our country. 
We did not succeed in effecting this bond, this constant 
contact between town and country, between industry 
and the peasant economy, through direct exchange 
of industrial goods for peasant-farm produce. We did

RESULTS OF THE XIII CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 253 
not succeed because of our low industrial development, 
because we did not have a ramified supply network 
covering the entire country, and because following the 
war our economy as a whole was in a state of disruption. 
That is why we were obliged to introduce what is known 
as the New Economic Policy, i.e., we were obliged to proclaim 
freedom of trade, free circulation of commodities, 
to permit capitalism, to mobilise the efforts of millions 
of peasants and small proprietors so as to create a flow 
of goods in the country and promote trade, in order 
subsequently, after gaining control of the key positions 
in trade, to build up the bond between industry and the 
peasant economy through trade. That is what Lenin 
called the roundabout method of building up the bond‹ 
not directly, not by means of direct exchange of peasantfarm 
produce for industrial goods, but through the medium 
of trade. 
The task is, by utilising the efforts of millions of 
small proprietors, to gain control of trade, to bring the 
chief supply channels of town and country into the 
hands of the state and the co-operatives, and in this way 
to establish uninterrupted contact, an indissoluble bond, 
between industry and the peasant economy. 
It would be wrong to say that this task is beyond our 
capacity. Wrong because the proletariat, being in power, 
possesses all the chief instruments, so to speak, required 
for establishing the bond between town and country by 
roundabout means, through trade. Firstly, the proletariat 
holds state power. Secondly, it owns industry. 
Thirdly, it controls credit, and credit is a potent force 
in the hands of the state. Fourthly, it has its own trading 
apparatus, good or bad, but at any rate an apparatus

J. V. S T A L I N 254 
that is developing and gaining strength. Lastly, it possesses 
certain commodity stocks which can be thrown 
onto the market from time to time in order to curb or 
neutralise market fluctuations, influence prices, and 
so on. The workers¹ state has all these means at its command 
and for that reason it cannot be said that establishing 
the bond between town and country through 
trade is beyond our capacity. 
That is how matters stand with regard to organising 
the bond between town and country and the possibilities 
for its establishment. 
And so, what new and significant developments has 
the past year produced from the standpoint of establishing 
the bond between town and country? 
What new materials did the Thirteenth Congress 
have to deal with when framing its decisions on the 
bond? 
The year¹s new developments in this sphere lie in 
the fact that in our practical work we have for the first 
time been confronted with a broad struggle, waged on 
a large scale, between the socialist and private capitalist 
elements within our national economy and, consequently, 
have for the first time approached the question 
of the bond in a practical and very concrete way. 
Questions of the bond and of trade appeared before us 
no longer as questions of theory, but as vital questions of 
immediate practice, requiring urgent solution. 
You will recall that already at the Eleventh Congress 
Lenin said45 that capture of the market by the state 
and the co-operatives, and gaining control of the basic 
channels of trade, would not be a matter of peaceful 
work, but would assume the form of struggle between

RESULTS OF THE XIII CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 255 
the socialist and the private capitalist elements; that 
it would assume the form of fierce rivalry between these 
two opposite elements in our national economy. Now 
this struggle has flared up. It has made itself evident 
mainly in two spheres: trade between town and country, 
and credit, chiefly in the countryside. 
What have been the results of this struggle? 
Firstly. Private capital, we found, had penetrated 
not into industry, where the risk is greater and the turnover 
of capital slower, but into trade, the very sphere 
which, as Lenin said, in our transition period constitutes 
the basic link in a chain of processes. And having 
penetrated into trade, private capital entrenched itself 
there to such an extent that it controlled about 80 per 
cent of the country¹s entire retail trade, and about 50 per 
cent of all its wholesale and retail trade. This is due to 
the fact that our trading and co-operative organisations 
were young and not yet properly organised; to the 
incorrect policy of our syndicates, which abused their 
monopoly position and forced up commodity prices; 
to the weakness of our Commissariat of Internal Trade, 
whose function it is to regulate trade in the interests of 
the state, and, lastly, to the instability of the Soviet 
currency then in circulation, which hit mainly at the 
peasant and forced down his purchasing capacity. 
Secondly. Rural credit, we found, was entirely in 
the hands of the kulak and the usurer. The small peasant, 
having no agricultural implements of his own, was 
forced into bondage to the usurer, was compelled to pay 
extortionate interest and to tolerate the usurer¹s domination 
without a murmur. This is due to the fact that we 
still have no local agricultural credit system capable of

J. V. S T A L I N 256 
granting the peasant cheap credit and ousting the 
usurer; to the fact that the usurer has this field entirely 
to himself. 
Thus we see that the merchant and the usurer have 
wedged themselves in between the state, on the one hand, 
and the peasant economy, on the other, with the result 
that the bond between socialist industry and the peasant 
economy has proved more difficult to organise, and in 
fact has not been properly organised. The summer marketing 
crisis last year was an expression of this difficulty 
and lack of proper organisation. 
Already then, even before the congress, the Party 
took steps to overcome the marketing crisis and lay the 
foundation for a system of agricultural credit. A new, 
stable currency was introduced, which improved the situation. 
Commodity stocks were put on the market to 
bring down prices, and this likewise had a favourable 
effect. The Commissariat of Internal Trade was reorganised 
in a way that ensured successful struggle against 
private capital. The question was raised of reorganising 
the work of the trade and co-operative bodies 
with a view to cementing the bond between town and 
country. The marketing crisis was, in the main, eliminated. 
But the Party could not confine itself to these measures. 
It was the task of the Thirteenth Congress to consider 
the question of the bond anew in all its implications 
and to work out the basic lines for solving it in the new 
situation created after the marketing crisis had been 
eliminated. 
What did the Thirteenth Congress decide on this 
score?

RESULTS OF THE XIII CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 257 
Firstly. The congress called for a further expansion 
of industry, primarily of light industry, and also metals, 
for it is clear that with our present stocks of manufactured 
goods we cannot satisfy the peasant¹s hunger for 
commodities. This apart from growing unemployment, 
which makes industrial expansion imperative. The further 
expansion of industry is, therefore, a question of life 
or death (see the congress resolution on the Central Committee¹s 
report46). 
Secondly. The congress called for a further expansion 
of peasant farming, for assistance to the peasants in 
extending crop areas. This, too, is necessary to strengthen 
the bond, for it is clear that the peasantry is interested 
in meeting not only the requirements of our industry, of 
course in exchange for manufactures, but also the requirements 
of the foreign market, of course in exchange for 
machines. Hence, the further expansion of peasant farming 
as an immediate task of Party policy (see the resolution 
on ³Work in the Countryside²47). 
Thirdly. The congress endorsed the formation of the 
People¹s Commissariat of Internal Trade and made it 
the principal task of all our trading and co-operative 
organisations to combat private capital, gain control 
of the market, and oust private capital from the sphere 
of trade by economic measures, by reducing commodity 
prices and improving the quality of goods, by manoeuvring 
with commodity stocks, utilising preferential credits, 
etc. (see the resolutions on ³Internal Trade² and on the 
³Co-operatives²48). 
Fourthly. The congress raised and decided the very 
important question of agricultural credit. The question 
concerns not only the Central Agricultural Bank, or

J. V. S T A L I N 258 
even the gubernia agricultural credit committees, but 
chiefly the organisation of a network of local credit cooperatives 
in the uyezds and volosts. It is a question 
of democratising credit, of making agricultural credit 
available to the peasant, of replacing the extortionate 
credit of the usurer by cheap state credit, and of ousting 
the usurer from the countryside. This is a highly important 
question for the whole of our economy, and unless 
it is solved there can be no really durable bond between 
the proletariat and the peasantry. That i s why the 
Thirteenth Congress devoted special attention to this problem 
(see the resolution on ³Work in the Countryside²). 
The Central Committee has secured the appropriation of 
40 million rubles to augment the basic capital of the 
Agricultural Bank, on the understanding that by an 
arrangement with the State Bank it will be possible to 
increase the amount to 80 million rubles. I believe that 
with some exertion of effort the amount can be raised 
to 100 million rubles. Certainly this is not very much for 
such a giant as our Union; nevertheless it will do something 
to help the peasant to improve his farming and to 
undermine bondage to the usurer. I have already spoken 
of the importance of local peasant credit co-operatives 
for the small peasants, for the bond between the peasantry 
and the workers¹ state. But the local credit co-operatives 
can be of assistance not only to the peasant. Under the 
proper conditions, they can become a most valuable 
source not only of state assistance to the peasant, but 
also of peasant assistance to the state. Indeed, if we develop 
a ramified network of local agricultural credit co-operatives 
in the uyezds and volosts, and if these institutions 
enjoy prestige among the peasant masses, they can

RESULTS OF THE XIII CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 259 
engage not only in credit, but in debit operations, too; 
in other words, the peasants will not only come to them 
for state loans, but will deposit money in them as well. 
It should not be difficult to visualise that if these local 
credit institutions develop favourably they can become 
a source of substantial assistance to the state by the 
peasant millions, a source with which no foreign loan 
can compare. As you see, the congress did not err in devoting 
special attention to the organisation of cheap 
rural credit. 
Fifthly. The congress re-affirmed the inviolability of 
our monopoly of foreign trade. I do not think there 
is any need to explain the importance of the foreign trade 
monopoly for our industry and agriculture as well as 
for the bond between the two. Its cardinal significance 
requires no fresh proof (see the resolution on the Central 
Committee¹s report). 
Sixthly. The congress endorsed the need to increase 
our exports in general, and the export of grain in particular. 
This decision, too, I believe, requires no comment 
(see the resolution on the Central Committee¹s 
report). 
Seventhly. The congress resolved that every measure 
be taken to complete the carrying through of the currency 
reform,49 which has facilitated trade and the 
establishment of firm ties between industry and the 
peasant economy, and to ensure that both central 
and local bodies create all the conditions necessary 
for this (see the resolution on the Central Committee¹s 
report). 
Such are the slogans issued by the Thirteenth Congress 
on the bond between town and country. Their purpose is

J. V. S T A L I N 260 
to gain control of trade, establish a firm bond between 
our industry and the peasant economy and thereby pave 
the way for the victory of the socialist elements of our 
national economy over the capitalist elements. 
QUESTIONS OF THE EDUCATION 
AND RE-EDUCATION OF THE WORKING MASSES 
One of the essential tasks confronting the Party in 
the epoch of the dictatorship of the proletariat is to 
re-educate the older generations and educate the new 
generations in the spirit of the proletarian dictatorship 
and socialism. The old habits and customs, traditions 
and prejudices inherited from the old society are most 
dangerous enemies of socialism. They‹these traditions 
and habits‹have a firm grip over millions of working 
people; at times they engulf whole strata of the proletariat; 
at times they present a great danger to the very 
existence of the proletarian dictatorship. That is why 
the struggle against these traditions and habits, their 
absolute eradication in all spheres of our activity, and, 
lastly, the education of the younger generations in the 
spirit of proletarian socialism, represent immediate tasks 
for our Party without the accomplishment of which 
socialism cannot triumph. Work to improve the state 
apparatus, work in the countryside, work among women 
toilers and among the youth‹these are the principal 
spheres of the Party¹s activity in the fulfilment of these 
tasks. 
a) The struggle to improve the state apparatus. The 
congress devoted little time to the question of the state 
apparatus. The report of the Central Control Commis

RESULTS OF THE XIII CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 261 
sion on the fight against defects in the state apparatus 
was endorsed without debate. The resolution on ³The 
Work of the Control Commissions²50 was likewise adopted 
without debate. This, I believe, was due to lack of 
time and to the great number of questions which the 
congress was called upon to consider. But it would be 
absolutely wrong to infer from this that the Party does 
not regard the question of the state apparatus as one of 
key importance. On the contrary, it is a vital issue in 
all our constructive work. Does the state apparatus function 
honestly, or does it indulge in graft; does it exercise 
economy in expenditure, or does it squander the national 
wealth; is it guilty of duplicity, or does it serve the state 
loyally and faithfully; is it a burden on the working 
people, or an organisation that helps them; does it inculcate 
respect for proletarian law, or does it corrupt the 
people¹s minds by disparaging proletarian law; is it 
progressing towards transition to a communist society 
in which there will be no state, or is it retrogressing towards 
the stagnant bureaucracy of the ordinary bourgeois 
state‹these are all questions the correct solution of 
which cannot but be a matter of decisive importance for 
the Party and for socialism. That our state apparatus is 
full of defects, that it is cumbersome and expensive and 
nine-tenths bureaucratic, that its bureaucracy weighs 
heavily on the Party and its organisations, hampering 
their efforts to improve the state apparatus‹these 
are things which hardly anyone will doubt. Yet it should 
be perfectly clear that, if our state apparatus were to rid 
itself of at least some of its basic faults, it could, in the 
hands of the proletariat, serve as a most valuable instrument 
for the education and re-education of broad sections

J. V. S T A L I N 262 
of the population in the spirit of the proletarian dictatorship 
and socialism. 
That is why Lenin devoted special attention to improving 
the state apparatus. 
That is why the Party has set up special organisations 
of workers and peasants (the reorganised Workers¹ 
and Peasants¹ Inspection and the enlarged Central Control 
Commission) to combat deficiencies in our state 
apparatus. 
The task is to help the Central Control Commission 
and the Workers¹ and Peasants¹ Inspection in their difficult 
work of improving, simplifying, reducing the cost 
of the state apparatus and bringing a healthier atmosphere 
into it from top to bottom (see the congress resolution 
on ³Work of the Control Commissions²) 
b) Work in the countryside. This is one of the most 
complex and difficult problems of our practical Party 
activity. The congress adopted a splendid resolution 
on the basic lines of our work in the countryside. One 
need only compare this resolution with that of the Eighth 
Congress on work in the countryside51 to appreciate the 
Party¹s progress in this field. But it would be a mistake 
to think that the Thirteenth Congress has given, or could 
have given this year, an exhaustive solution to the very 
complicated problem of work in the countryside. Such 
questions as the organisational forms of collective farming; 
reorganisation of the state farms; proper adjustment 
of land tenure, both in the central and border regions; 
new forms of organisation of labour in connection with 
the activities of the agricultural co-operatives; understanding 
of the specific features obtaining in different 
regions of our Union, and proper regard for these specific

RESULTS OF THE XIII CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 263 
features in our work‹all these questions, for reasons 
that will be readily appreciated, could not be exhaustively 
settled in the congress resolution. The importance 
of that resolution lies in the fact that it charts the basic 
lines of our work and contributes to the further study of 
these questions. You probably know that the Central 
Committee plenum52 set up a permanent commission on 
work in the countryside for a detailed study of these 
questions. 
The focal point of the resolution is the slogan of developing 
the co-operative movement among the peasantry. 
This should proceed along three lines: consumers¹ cooperatives, 
agricultural co-operatives and credit co-operatives. 
This is one of the surest ways of implanting the 
idea of collectivism and collective methods, among the 
peasantry, among the poor and middle sections of the 
peasantry (see the congress resolution on ³Work in the 
Countryside²). 
c) Work among women toilers. In my report to the 
congress, I remarked on the neglect shown in regard to 
this work, which is of extreme, in some cases of decisive, 
importance to the Party for the training of the 
younger generations in the spirit of socialism. There is no 
point, certainly, in repeating here what has already been 
said at the congress. I would like only to call your attention 
to the fact that, although the congress, unfortunately, 
had no opportunity to discuss activities among 
women toilers as a separate item, it adopted a special decision 
stating that: ³The congress draws the particular 
attention of the entire Party to the need for intensifying 
our activities among working women and peasant women 
and for promoting their participation in all Party and

J. V. S T A L I N 264 
Soviet elected bodies² (see the resolution on the Central 
Committee¹s report). I think that the next congress will 
have to deal with this question specially. In accordance 
with the congress decision, the Central Committee plenum 
held immediately after the congress instructed the C.C. 
Organising Bureau to initiate special measures to raise 
our activities among women toilers to the proper level. 
d) Work among the youth. The congress devoted particular 
attention to work among the youth. Its resolution 
on the subject is, in my opinion, the most detailed 
and exhaustive of all the congress resolutions, and is 
therefore of immense value to the Party and to the youth. 
The importance of the youth‹I am referring to the 
working-class and peasant youth‹lies in the fact that 
it constitutes a most favourable soil for building the 
future, that it represents our country¹s future and is the 
bearer of that future. If our work in the state apparatus, 
among the peasants, among women toilers, is of immense 
importance for overcoming old habits and traditions, 
for re-educating the older generations of working people, 
work among the youth, who are more or less free from 
these traditions and habits, assumes inestimable importance 
for the education of new cadres of working people in 
the spirit of the proletarian dictatorship and socialism, 
for here‹and this is self-evident‹we have an extremely 
favourable soil. 
From this follows the very great importance of the 
Young Communist League and of i t s offshoot, the 
Pioneers. 
The Young Communist League is a voluntary organisation 
of young workers and peasants. The young workers 
are its centre, its core; the young peasants‹its support.

RESULTS OF THE XIII CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 265 
The basis of the organisation of the youth is the alliance 
of the working-class youth and peasant youth. Its tasks 
are: to gather around the proletarian core all honest-minded 
and revolutionary elements among the peasant youth; 
to draw its members into all branches of activity‹economic 
and cultural, military and administrative; to train 
them to be fighters and builders, workers and leaders of 
our country (see the resolution on ³Work Among the 
Youth²53) 
THE PARTY 
There are four questions here: the opposition, the 
Lenin Enrolment, democratisation of the Party leadership, 
theory in general and the propaganda of Leninism 
in particular. 
a) The opposition. Now that the question of the opposition 
has been decided by the congress and the whole 
matter, consequently, is settled, one might ask: What is 
the opposition, and what, essentially, was the issue 
involved in the discussion? I think, comrades, that the 
issue was one of life or death for the Party. Perhaps the 
opposition itself did not realise this, but that is not 
the point. The important thing is not what aims particular 
comrades or opposition groups set themselves. 
The important thing is the objective results that are 
bound to follow from the actions of such a group. What 
does declaring war on the Party apparatus mean? It means 
working to destroy the Party. What does inciting the 
youth against the cadres mean? It means working to disintegrate 
the Party. What does fighting for freedom of 
groups mean? It means attempting to demolish the Party, 
its unity, What does the effort to discredit the Party

J. V. S T A L I N 266 
cadres by talk about degeneration mean? It means trying 
to disrupt the Party, to break its backbone. Yes, 
comrades, the issue was one of life or death for the Party. 
And that, indeed, explains the passion of the discussion. 
It also explains the fact, unparalleled in our Party¹s history, 
that the congress unanimously condemned the opposition 
platform. The gravity of the danger welded the 
Party into a solid ring of iron. 
It is interesting to trace the history of the opposition. 
We can begin with the Seventh Party Congress, 
the first after the establishment of Soviet power (in 
the early part of 1918). There was an opposition at that 
congress, and it was headed by the same people who led 
the opposition at the Thirteenth Congress. The issue 
was war or peace, the Brest Peace. At that time the opposition 
had one quarter of the whole congress on its 
side‹no mean proportion. No wonder there was talk 
then of a split. 
Two years later, at the Tenth Congress, the inner- 
Party struggle flared up anew, this time over the trade 
union issue, and the opposition was headed by the same 
people. The opposition mustered one-eighth of the 
congress, which, of course, was less than the quarter it 
had before. 
Another two years passed, and a new struggle flared 
up at the Thirteenth Congress, the one that has just concluded. 
Here, too, there was an opposition, but it failed 
to muster a single vote at the congress. This time, as 
you see, its showing was a sorry one indeed. 
And so, on three occasions the opposition has tried 
to wage war against the Party¹s basic cadres. The first 
time at the Seventh Congress, the second time at the

RESULTS OF THE XIII CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 267 
Tenth, and the third time at the Thirteenth Congress. 
It met with defeat on all these occasions, each time losing 
some of its following and with every new step diminishing 
the strength of its army. 
What do all these facts show? Firstly, that the history 
of our Party in these past six years has been one of 
progressive rallying of the majority of our Party around 
its basic cadres. Secondly that the opposition¹s supporters 
have been steadily breaking away from it to join the 
basic core of the Party and swell its ranks. The conclusion 
that follows is this: it is not precluded that 
from the opposition, which had no delegates at the Thirteenth 
Congress (we do not have proportional representation) 
but which undoubtedly has followers in 
the Party, a number of comrades will break away and 
join the basic core of the Party, as has happened in 
the past. 
What should our policy be with regard to these oppositionists, 
or, more precisely, with regard to these 
former oppositionists? It should be an exceptionally 
comradely one. Every measure must be taken to help 
them to come over to the basic core of the Party and to 
work jointly and in harmony with this core. 
b) The Lenin Enrolment. I shall not dwell on the fact 
that the Lenin Enrolment, that is, the admission into 
our Party of 250,000 new members from among the 
workers, is evidence of the Party¹s profound democracy, 
of the fact that it actually is the elected organ of the 
working class. The importance of the Lenin Enrolment 
from this aspect is, of course, tremendous. But that is 
not the aspect I should like to discuss today. I wish to 
draw your attention to the dangerous infatuation which

J. V. S T A L I N 268 
has made its appearance in our Party of late in connection 
with the Lenin Enrolment. Some say that we should 
go further and bring the number of members up to one 
million. Others want to go beyond that figure, maintaining 
that it would be better to go as far as two millions. 
I do not doubt that others are prepared to go further 
still. This is a dangerous infatuation, comrades. Infatuation 
has been the cause of the downfall of the world¹s 
biggest armies; they seized too much and then, being 
unable to digest what they had seized, they fell to pieces. 
The biggest parties can perish if they yield to infatuation, 
seize too much and then prove incapable of embracing, 
digesting what they have captured. Judge for yourselves. 
Political illiteracy in our Party is as high as 60 
per cent‹60 per cent prior to the Lenin Enrolment, 
and I am afraid that with the Lenin Enrolment it will 
be brought up to 80 per cent. Is it not time to call a halt, 
comrades? Is it not time to confine ourselves to 800,000 
members and put the question squarely and sharply of 
improving the quality of the membership, of teaching 
the Lenin Enrolment the foundations of Leninism, of 
converting the new members into conscious Leninists? 
I think it is time to do that. 
c) Democratisation of the Party leadership. The Lenin 
Enrolment testifies to the profound democracy of our 
Party, to the proletarian composition of its basic units, 
to the undoubted confidence it enjoys among the millions 
of non-Party people. But these are not the only features 
of democracy in our Party; they make up only one 
aspect of democracy. Another aspect is the steady democratisation 
of the Party leadership. It was pointed out 
at the congress that the focus in Party leadership is being

RESULTS OF THE XIII CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 269 
shifted more and more from narrow leading bodies and 
bureaus to wider organisations, to the plenums of the 
local and central bodies; and that the plenums themselves 
are being extended and their composition improved. 
You probably know that the congress fully approved 
this tendency in the development of our leading organisations. 
What does all this indicate? It indicates that our 
leading organisations are beginning to take root in the 
very midst of the proletarian masses. It is interesting to 
trace the development of our Party¹s Central Committee 
during the past six years, from the point of view of size 
and social composition. At the time of the Seventh Congress 
(1918) the Central Committee consisted of 15 members, 
of whom only one (7 per cent) was a worker, while 
intellectuals numbered 14 (93 per cent). That was at the 
Seventh Congress. Now, after the Thirteenth Congress, 
the Central Committee has 54 members, of whom 29 
(53 per cent) are workers and 25 (47 per cent) are intellectuals. 
This is a sure sign of the democratisation of the 
principal Party leadership. 
d) Theory in general and the propaganda of Leninism 
in particular. One of the dangerous shortcomings of our 
Party is the decline in the theoretical level of its members. 
This is due to the devilish pressure of routine work, 
which kills the desire for theoretical study and fosters 
a certain dangerous disregard‹to put it mildly‹for questions 
of theory. Here are a few examples. 
I recently read in a newspaper a report on the Thirteenth 
Congress by one of the comrades (I think it was 
Kamenev) which said in so many words that our Party¹s 
immediate slogan was conversion of ³Nepman Russia² 
into socialist Russia. And what is still worse, this strange

J. V. S T A L I N 270 
slogan was attributed to none other than Lenin himself‹
no more and no less! Yet we know that Lenin did 
not say anything of the kind, nor could he have done so, 
for everyone knows that no such thing as ³Nepman² 
Russia exists. True, Lenin spoke of ³NEP² Russia. 
But ³NEP² Russia (that is, Soviet Russia which is carrying 
out the new economic policy) is one thing, and 
³Nepman² Russia (that is, a Russia ruled by Nepmen) 
is quite another. Does Kamenev appreciate this fundamental 
difference? Of course he does. Why then did he 
come out with this strange slogan? Because of the usual 
disregard for questions of theory, for precise theoretical 
formulations. Yet, unless the error is corrected, this 
strange slogan is very likely to give rise to a good deal of 
misunderstanding in the Party. 
Another example. People often say that we have a 
³dictatorship of the Party.² Someone will say: I am 
for the dictatorship of the Party. I recall that the expression 
figured in one of our congress resolutions, in fact, 
I believe, in a resolution of the Twelfth Congress. This, 
of course, was an oversight. Apparently, some comrades 
think that ours is a dictatorship of the Party, not of the 
working class. But that is sheer nonsense, comrades. If 
that contention were right, then Lenin was wrong, for 
he taught us that the Soviets implement the dictatorship, 
while the Party guides the Soviets. Then Lenin was wrong, 
for he spoke of the dictatorship of the proletariat, not of 
the dictatorship of the Party. If the contention about 
³dictatorship of the Party² were correct, there would 
be no need for the Soviets, there would have been no 
point in Lenin, at the Eleventh Congress, speaking of 
the necessity to draw a ³distinction between Party and

RESULTS OF THE XIII CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 271 
Soviet organs.² But from what quarter, and how, has 
this nonsense penetrated into our Party? It is the result 
of the passion for the ³Party principle,² which does so 
much harm precisely to the Party principle, without 
quotation marks. It is the result of a disregard for questions 
of theory, of the habit of putting forward slogans 
without considering them properly beforehand, for very 
little thought is required to realise the utter absurdity 
of substituting the dictatorship of the Party for the dictatorship 
of the class. Does it need proof that this absurdity 
may well give rise to confusion and misunderstanding 
in the Party? 
Or another example. Everybody knows that during 
the discussion one section of our Party succumbed to 
the opposition¹s anti-Party agitation against the organisational 
principles of Leninism. Any Bolshevik who 
has had even the briefest schooling in the theory of Leninism 
would have immediately realised that these opposition 
preachings had nothing in common with Leninism. 
However, a section of the Party, as we know, 
failed at first to see the opposition in its true colours. 
Why? Because of this same disregard for theory, because 
of the low theoretical level of our Party members. 
The discussion brought the question of studying 
Leninism to the forefront. The death of Lenin made 
this question more acute, by heightening the Party 
members¹ interest in theory. The Thirteenth Congress 
merely reflected this sentiment, when in a number 
of resolutions i t confirmed the need to study and 
propagate Leninism. The task of the Party is to take 
advantage of this heightened interest in questions of

J. V. S T A L I N 272 
theory and do everything to raise, at last, the theoretical 
level of the membership to the proper degree. We 
must not forget Lenin¹s words that without a clear and 
correct theory, there can be no correct practice. 
THE TASKS OF PARTY WORKERS 
IN THE UYEZDS 
Comrades, it is not accidental that it is to you that 
I have come to report on the congress. I have come here not 
only because of your invitation, but also because at the 
present stage of development the uyezds, and in particular 
the Party workers in the uyezds, represent the principal 
connecting link between the Party and the peasantry, 
between town and country. And, as you are well 
aware, establishing the bond between town and country 
is today the fundamental question of our practical Party 
and state activities. 
I have already said that establishing the bond between 
state industry and the peasant economy must proceed 
along three main lines: consumers¹ co-operatives, 
agricultural co-operatives and local credit co-operatives. 
I have said that these are the three basic channels 
through which the bond must be organised. But it would 
be fanciful to imagine that we shall succeed at once in 
linking up industry with the peasant economy directly 
on the volost level, by-passing the uyezd. There is no 
need to prove that we have neither the forces for this, 
nor the skill, nor the funds. Therefore, at this juncture, 
the uyezd, the area, remains the pivotal point in building 
up the bond between town and country. To entrench 
ourselves in the sphere of trade there is no need to oust

RESULTS OF THE XIII CONGRESS OF THE R.C.P.(B.) 273 
the very last shopkeeper from the very last volost; all 
we need is to convert the uyezd into a base of Soviet 
trade, so that all the shopkeepers will be compelled 
to revolve round the co-operative or Soviet shop in the 
uyezd as the planets revolve round the sun. To gain 
control in the sphere of credit there is no need at all 
at the present moment to cover the volosts and villages 
with a network of credit co-operatives; i t is sufficient 
to build a base in the uyezd, and the peasants will 
immediately begin to break away from the kulak and 
usurer. And so on and so forth. 
In short, in the near future the uyezd (area) must 
be converted into the principal base for organising the 
bond between town and country, between the proletariat 
and the peasantry. 
How quickly this conversion will take place depends 
upon you comrades working in the uyezds. There are 
some 300 of you now‹a veritable army. And it depends 
upon you, and your comrades in the uyezds of our country, 
to convert the uyezd, as quickly as possible, into the 
pivotal point of our Party and state work in establishing 
the bond between industry and the peasant economy. I 
do not doubt that the uyezd workers will fulfil their 
duty to the Party and the country. 
Pravda, Nos. 136 and 137, 
June 19 and 20, 1924

WORKER CORRESPONDENTS 
Interview With a Representative 
of the Magazine ³Rabochy Korrespondent²54 
The importance of workers¹ participation in the conduct 
of a newspaper lies primarily in the fact that such 
participation makes it possible to transform this sharp 
weapon in the class struggle, as a newspaper is, from a 
weapon for the enslavement of the people into a weapon 
for their emancipation. Only worker and peasant correspondents 
can bring about this great transformation. 
Only as an organised force can worker and peasant 
correspondents play, in the course of development of the 
press, the part of mouthpiece and vehicle of proletarian 
public opinion, of exposer of the defects in Soviet public 
life, and of tireless fighter for the improvement of 
our work of construction. 
Should worker correspondents be elected at workers¹ 
meetings, or should they be chosen by the editors? I 
think that the second method (choice by the editors) is 
more advisable. The underlying principle must be the 
correspondent¹s independence of the institutions and 
persons that, in one way or another, he comes in contact 
with in the course of his work. This, however, does not 
mean independence of that intangible but constantly 
operating force that is called proletarian public opinion, 
of which the worker correspondent must be the vehicle. 
Worker and peasant correspondents must not be regarded 
merely as future journalists, or as factory social

WORKER CORRESPONDENTS 275 
workers in the narrow sensa of the term; they are primarily 
exposers of the defects in our Soviet public life, 
fighters for the removal of those defects, commanders of 
proletarian public opinion, striving to direct the inexhaustible 
forces of this immense factor so that they help 
the Party and the Soviet power in the difficult task of 
socialist construction. 
This gives rise to the question of educational work 
among worker and peasant correspondents. It is, of course, 
necessary to give worker and peasant correspondents some 
grounding in the technique of journalism; but that is not 
the main thing. The main thing is that the worker and 
peasant correspondents should learn in the course of their 
work and acquire that intuition of the journalist-public 
worker without which the correspondent cannot fulfil 
his mission; and which cannot be implanted by any artificial 
measures of training in the technical sense of the 
term. 
Direct ideological guidance of worker and peasant 
correspondents must be exercised by the newspaper editors, 
who are linked with the Party. The censorship of 
articles must be concentrated in the hands of the newspaper 
editors. 
Persecution of worker and peasant correspondents 
is barbarous, a survival of bourgeois customs. The newspaper 
must undertake to protect its correspondent from 
persecution, for it alone is capable of raising a fierce 
campaign to expose obscurantism. 
I wish Rabochy Korrespondent every success. 
J. Stalin 
Rabochy Korrespondent, No. 6, 
June 1924

THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF POLAND 
Speech Delivered at a Meeting of the Polish 
Commission of the Comintern 55 
July 3, 1924 
Comrades, I have not sufficient material at my disposal 
to enable me to speak as emphatically as some of 
those who have spoken here. Nevertheless, on the basis 
of the material that I did, after all, manage to obtain, 
and on the basis of the debate that has taken place here, 
I have formed a definite opinion, which I would like to 
share with you. 
Undoubtedly, the Polish Communist Party is in an 
abnormal state. That there is a crisis in the Polish Party 
is a fact. It was admitted by Walecki; you have all admitted 
it, and it was clearly revealed here, for it was 
noted that there is discord in the Central Committee of the 
Polish Party between practical workers who are members 
of the C.C. and the leaders of the C.C. Moreover, the Central 
Committee of the Polish Party itself, at its plenums 
of December last year and March this year, admitted in 
its resolutions that a number of its actions had been of 
an opportunist character and it condemned them without 
mincing words. That seems to be proof enough. I repeat, 
all this goes to show that there is undoubtedly a crisis 
in the Communist Party of Poland.

THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF POLAND 277 
What is the cause of this crisis? 
The cause lies in certain opportunist transgressions 
committed in their practical work by the official leaders 
of the Communist Party of Poland. 
Permit me to quote a few examples confirming this 
statement. 
The ³Russian² question. Some Polish comrades say 
that this is a question of external policy and, as such, 
is of no great importance for the Polish Party. That 
is wrong. The ³Russian² question is of decisive importance 
for the entire revolutionary movement, in the 
West as well as in the East. Why? Because Soviet 
power in Russia is the base, the bulwark, the haven 
of the revolutionary movement all over the world. If 
in this base, i.e., in Russia, the Party and the government 
begin to waver, it must cause very grave harm 
to the entire revolutionary movement throughout the 
world. 
During the discussion in our R.C.P.(B.) wavering began 
in the Party. By its struggle against the Party, the 
opposition, which is essentially opportunist, tended to 
shake, to weaken the Party, and hence, to weaken the 
Soviet power itself; for our Party is the ruling party and 
the chief guiding factor in the state. It is natural that 
wavering within the R.C.P.(B.) could eventually lead 
to the wavering, the weakening of the Soviet power itself; 
and the wavering of the Soviet power would mean harm to 
the revolutionary movement all over the world. Precisely 
for this reason, disagreements within the R.C.P.(B.), and 
the fate of the R.C.P.(B.) in general, cannot but directly 
affect the fate of the revolutionary movement in other 
countries. That is why the ³Russian² question, although

J. V. S T A L I N 278 
an external question for Poland, is one of prime importance 
for all the Communist Parties, including the 
Polish Communist Party. 
Well, what was the attitude of the leaders of the 
Polish Party towards the ³Russian² question? Whom did 
they support: the opportunist opposition or the revolutionary 
majority in the R.C.P.(B.)? It is clear to me that 
in the first period of the struggle within the R.C.P.(B.), 
the struggle against the opportunist opposition, the leaders 
of the Polish Party unambiguously supported that 
opposition. I shall not delve into the minds of Warski 
or Walecki; what Warski was thinking when he wrote 
the well-known resolution of the Central Committee of 
the Communist Party of Poland in support of the opposition 
in the R.C.P.(B.) is of no importance for me. It 
is not people¹s intentions, but the objective results of 
that resolution that are of primary importance for me. 
And the objective results of that resolution are that it 
brings grist to the opposition¹s mill. That resolution supported 
the opportunist wing of the R.C.P.(B.). That is 
the whole point. At the time when the Central Committee 
of the Polish Party adopted that resolution and sent it 
to the Central Committee of the R.C.P.(B.) it represented 
the Polish branch of the opportunist opposition within 
the R.C.P.(B.). If we regard the opposition within the 
R.C.P.(B.) as a sort of business firm having branches 
in different countries, we can say that at that time the 
Communist Party of Poland was the Polish branch of 
that firm. That is the essence of the opportunist transgressions 
on the ³Russian² question committed by the leaders 
of the Polish Party. It is sad, but, unfortunately, it is 
a fact.

THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF POLAND 279 
The German question. Next to the ³Russian² question, 
this one is of the greatest importance, firstly, because 
Germany is more pregnant with revolution than any 
other country in Europe; and secondly, because a revolutionary 
victory in Germany would be victory in the 
whole of Europe. If a revolutionary upheaval commences 
anywhere in Europe it will be in Germany. Only Germany 
can take the initiative in this matter, and the victory of 
the revolution in Germany will ensure the victory of the 
international revolution. 
You know that last year a struggle flared up within 
the Communist Party of Germany between its revolutionary 
majority and opportunist minority. You know 
how greatly a victory of the Left or of the Right wing 
of the German Communist Party would affect the whole 
course of the international revolution. Well, whom did 
the leaders of the Central Committee of the Polish Communist 
Party support in that struggle? They supported 
the Brandler group56 against the revolutionary majority 
of the German Communist Party. That is now admitted 
by all, both friends and foes. The same thing happened 
as on the ³Russian² question. If we assume that there is 
in Germany a sort of business firm in the shape of the 
opportunist opposition in the Communist Party, then 
the Polish leaders were the Polish branch of that firm. 
This, too, is sad, but you cannot go against facts; facts 
must be admitted. 
The method of fighting the opportunist opposition. 
Kostrzewa said that they, i.e., the leaders of the Polish 
Central Committee, in essence support the Russian Central 
Committee and, perhaps, the present German Central 
Committee, but disagree with those bodies on the methods

J. V. S T A L I N 280 
of fighting the Opposition. They, you see, demand mild 
methods of fighting the opposition. They are in favour of 
war against the opposition, but they want a war that will 
involve no casualties. Walecki even went so far as to shout 
out: But we are in favour of the ³three²! I must say that 
nobody demands that Walecki should say ditto to the 
Russian Central Committee in everything. Besides, I 
don¹t know who these ³three² are about whom Walecki 
is so enthusiastic. He has forgotten that nobody is obliged 
to say ditto to the Russian Central Committee in 
everything (Walecki, from his seat: ³I am not obliged 
to, but I can.²) Of course, you can, but one ought to 
realise that such conduct places both Walecki and 
the Russian Central Committee in an awkward position. 
It is not at all a matter of saying ditto. The point is 
that in Russia, under the conditions of the NEP, a new 
bourgeoisie has arisen which, being unable to come into 
the political arena openly, is trying to breach the communist 
front from within and is looking for champions 
among the leaders of the R.C.P.(B.). Well, this circumstance 
is giving rise to oppositionist sentiments within 
the R.C.P.(B.) and is creating the ground for an opportunist 
deviation. Hence, the point is that our fraternal 
parties must define their attitude towards this circumstance 
and take a definite stand. The point lies in that, I 
repeat, and not in saying ditto to the Russian Central 
Committee. 
As for Kostrzewa¹s mild method, I must say that 
it does not stand the slightest criticism. Kostrzewa is 
in favour of fighting the opportunist opposition, but in 
such a way as not to lead to discrediting the leaders of 
the opposition. But firstly, history knows no struggle

FROM MARX 
TO MAO 
 
NOT FOR 
COMMERCIAL 
DISTRIBUTION 
281 
that has not involved some casualties. Secondly, we 
cannot defeat the opposition and disregard the fact 
that our victory will result in undermining the prestige 
of the leaders of the opposition, otherwise we would 
have to abandon all idea of fighting the opposition. 
Thirdly, complete victory over the opposition is the sole 
guarantee against a split. Party practice knows of no 
other guarantee. The entire history of the R.C.P.(B.) 
proves this. 
Before the war, when German Social-Democracy 
was orthodox, i t fought opportunism by the same 
mild method that Kostrzewa spoke of here. But the result 
it achieved by that was that opportunism proved to be 
the victor and a split became inevitable. 
The R.C.P.(B.) fought opportunism by the tried and 
tested method of resolutely isolating the opportunist 
leaders. And the result it achieved was that revolutionary 
Marxism triumphed and the Party acquired exceptional 
unity. 
I think that the experience of the R.C.P.(B.) should 
serve as a lesson for us. The method of fighting recommended 
by Kostrzewa is a hang-over from Social-Democratic 
opportunism. It is fraught with the danger of a 
split in the Party. 
Lastly, the question of leadership of the Party. What is 
the characteristic feature of the development of the Communist 
Parties in the West at the present time? It is that 
the parties have come right up against the question of 
reorganising their practical activities on new, revolutionary 
lines. It is not a matter of adopting a communist 
programme or of proclaiming revolutionary slogans. It 
is a matter of reorganising the parties¹ everyday work, 
THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF POLAND

J. V. S T A L I N 282 
their practical activities, along such a line that every 
step and every action they take should naturally lead to 
the revolutionary education of the masses, to preparation 
for revolution. That is now the essence of the matter and 
not the adoption of revolutionary directives. 
Yesterday, Pruchniak read here a whole string of 
revolutionary resolutions adopted by the leaders of the 
Polish Central Committee. He read those resolutions with 
a triumphant air, believing that leadership of the Party 
consists solely in drafting resolutions. He has no inkling 
that drafting resolutions is only the first step, the beginning 
of leadership of the Party. He does not realise that, 
at bottom, leadership consists not in drafting resolutions, 
but in the implementation of them, in putting them into 
effect. As a consequence, in his long speech he forgot to 
tell us what became of those resolutions; he did not deem 
it necessary to tell us whether the Communist Party of 
Poland has carried out those resolutions, and to what 
extent. And yet, the essence of Party leadership consists 
precisely in the implementation of resolutions and 
directives. Looking at him, I was reminded of the typical 
Soviet bureaucrat called to ³report² to an inspection 
commission. ³Has such and such a directive been 
carried out?² the inspection commission asks. ³Measures 
have been taken,² answers the bureaucrat. ³What measures?² 
the inspection commission asks. ³Orders have 
been issued,² the bureaucrat answers. The inspection 
commission calls for the document. With a triumphant 
air the bureaucrat presents a copy of the orders. The inspection 
commission asks: ³What has become of these 
orders? Were they carried out and if so, when?² The 
bureaucrat looks blank, and says ³We have received no

THE COMMUNIST PARTY OF POLAND 283 
information.² Of course, the inspection commission calls 
such a bureaucrat to account. It was precisely such a 
Soviet bureaucrat that Pruchniak reminded me of when 
he, with a triumphant air, read the revolutionary resolutions, 
concerning the implementation of which he has 
³no information.² That is not leadership of the Party; 
it is a mockery of all leadership. 
What are the conclusions? The conclusions can be 
summed up as follows. 
Firstly. In the forthcoming Party discussion in Poland, 
I am emphatically opposed to any dividing line being 
drawn between the former Polish Socialist Party and the 
former Social-Democracy. That would be dangerous for the 
Party. The former P.S.P. and P.S.D. have long been 
merged in a single party and are jointly fighting the Polish 
landlords and bour geoisie. To divide them now retrospectively 
into two parts would be a profound error. The fight 
must not be waged along the old line as between the 
P.S.P. and P.S.D., but along the new line of isolating 
the opportunist wing of the Communist Party of Poland. 
Complete victory over the opportunist wing‹that is the 
guarantee against a split and the guarantee of the 
Party¹s unity. 
Secondly. I am emphatically opposed to the so-called 
amputation method, i.e., to the removal of certain members 
of the Central Committee from that body. In general, 
I am opposed to the reorganisation of the Central Committee 
from above. It must be borne in mind that surgical 
operations carried out when there is no imperative need 
for them leave a bad aftermath in the Party. Let the 
Communist Party of Poland itself reorganise its Central 
Committee at the forthcoming congress or conference. It

J. V. S T A L I N 284 
is inconceivable that a growing party should not promote 
new leaders. 
Thirdly. I think that the practical proposals put forward 
by Unszlicht are quite correct. It would be quite 
rational to set up in place of the present Organising Bureau 
and Political Bureau, which have become divorced 
from each other, a single political and practical centre 
consisting of members of the present Polish Central Committee. 
Doubts have been expressed here about the theoretical 
knowledge and party experience of the new leaders 
who have come to the fore in the revolutionary struggle 
in Poland. I think that this circumstance is not of 
decisive importance. There have been cases in the life 
of the R.C.P.(B.) when workers with inadequate theoretical 
and political knowledge became the heads of huge 
regional organisations. But those workers proved to be 
better leaders than many intellectuals who lack the necessary 
revolutionary intuition. It is quite possible that at 
first things will not run quite smoothly with the new 
leaders, but there will be no harm in that. They will 
stumble once or twice, but eventually they will learn 
to lead the revolutionary movement. Trained leaders 
never fall from the skies. They grow up only in the course 
of the struggle. 
Bolshevik, No. 11, 
September 20, 1924

A LETTER TO COMRADE DEMYAN BEDNY 
Dear Demyan, 
I am very late in replying. You have a right to be 
angry with me, but you must bear in mind that I am unusually 
remiss as regards letters and correspondence in 
general. 
Point by point. 
1. It is very good to hear that you are in a ³joyful 
mood.² The philosophy of ³Weltschmerz² is not our philosophy. 
Let the departing and the dying grieve. Our 
philosophy was quite aptly expressed by the American 
Whitman: ³We live! Our scarlet blood seethes with the 
fire of unspent strength!² That¹s the way it is, Demyan. 
2. You write: ³I am afraid to offend, but I must take 
a cure.² My advice is: better offend a couple of visitors 
than refrain from taking a cure according to all the 
rules of the art. You must take a cure; you must 
without fail. To refrain from offending visitors is a 
concern of the moment; but to offend them a little in 
order to take a serious cure is a concern of more lasting 
importance. Opportunists differ from their antipodes 
precisely in the fact that they place concerns of the first 
kind above those of the second. Needless to say, you will 
not imitate the opportunists.

J. V. S T A L I N 286 
3. You write: ³There was a touch of subtlety in the 
amnesty tone of your report to the Uyezd Party Committee 
secretaries.²* It would be truer to say that there is 
here a policy which, speaking generally, does not preclude 
a certain amount of subtlety. I think that, after having 
smashed the leaders of the opposition to smithereens, we, 
i.e., the Party, must now adopt a milder tone towards 
the rank-and-file and middle followers of the opposition 
in order to make it easier for them to abandon the opposition 
leaders. Leave the generals without an army‹ 
that is the leitmotif. The opposition has about forty or 
fifty thousand followers in the Party. The majority of 
them would like to abandon their leaders, but they are 
hindered by their own pride, or by the rudeness and arrogance 
of certain supporters of the Central Committee 
who torment the rank-and-file followers of the opposition 
with their pinpricks and thereby hinder them from 
coming over to our side. The ³tone² of my report was directed 
against such supporters of the Central Committee. 
Only in this way can we destroy the opposition now that 
its leaders have been disgraced in sight of the whole world. 
4. You ask: ³Will not the harvest let us down?² It 
has already let us down somewhat. Whereas, last year we 
harvested (gross crop) over two thousand seven hundred 
million poods, this year we expect about two hundred 
million poods less. This will be a blow to exports, of 
course. True, the number of farms affected by the crop 
failure this year is only a fifth of the number affected in 
1921, and we shall be able to cope with the evil unaided 
without exceptional effort. You need have no doubt about 
*See this volume, pp. 246-73.‹Ed.

A LETTER TO COMRADE DEMYAN BEDNY 287 
that. Still, a blow is a blow. But it is an ill wind that 
blows nobody any good. We have decided to take advantage 
of the increased readiness of the peasants to do all 
in their power to insure themselves against the chance of 
drought in future, and we shall try to take the utmost 
advantage of this readiness to carry out (jointly with the 
peasants) resolute measures for land melioration, improvement 
of methods of cultivation, and so forth. We intend 
to start by creating a necessary minimum meliorated zone 
along the line Samara-Saratov-Tsaritsyn-Astrakhan-Stavropol. 
We are assigning fifteen to twenty million rubles 
for the purpose. Next year we shall pass to the southern 
gubernias. This will mark the beginning of a revolution 
in our agriculture. The local people say that the peasants 
will render considerable assistance. It needs thunder to 
make the peasant cross himself. It turns out that the 
scourge of drought is needed to raise agriculture to a higher 
stage and to insure our country for ever against the 
hazards of the weather. Kolchak taught us to build an 
infantry, and Denikin taught us to build a cavalry. 
Drought is teaching us to build agriculture. Such are the 
paths of history. And there is nothing unnatural about it. 
5. You write: ³Come.² Unfortunately, I cannot come. 
I cannot, because I cannot spare the time. I advise you 
to go for ³a spree in Baku.² You must. Tiflis is not so 
interesting, although outwardly it is more attractive 
than Baku. If you have not yet seen a forest of oil derricks 
then you ³have seen nothing.² I am sure that Baku will 
provide you with a wealth of material for gems like your 
Railway Traffic.57 
Here in Moscow the congress period is not yet over. 
The speeches and debates at the Fifth Congress are, of

J. V. S T A L I N 288 
course, worth while, but strictly speaking they are merely 
a trimming. Much more interesting are the friendly talks 
with the delegates from the West (and also from the East) 
which all of us here have had. I had a long talk with German, 
French and Polish workers. Magnificent revolutionary 
³material²! Everything goes to show that over 
there, in the West, hatred, real revolutionary hatred of 
the bourgeois order is growing. I was delighted to hear 
them express in simple but powerful speeches their desire 
³to make a revolution in the Russian way² in their 
own countries. These are a new type of workers. We have 
not had any like them at our congresses before. It is still 
a long way to the revolution, of course, but that things 
are moving towards revolution there can be no doubt. 
I was struck by yet another feature about these workers: 
their warm, ardent, almost maternal love for our country 
and their colossal, boundless faith in the rightness, capability 
and might of our Party. Of the scepticism that was 
only recently evident there was not a trace. That, too, is 
no accident. It is also a sign of the maturing revolution. 
That¹s the way it is, Demyan. 
Well, enough for the present. Firmly gripping your 
hand, 
Yours, 
J. Stalin 
15. VII. 24 
Published for the first time

Y. M. SVERDLOV 
There are people, leaders of the proletariat, about 
whom no noise is made in the press‹perhaps because 
they do not like to make a noise about themselves‹but 
who are, nevertheless, the vital sap and genuine leaders 
of the revolutionary movement. Y. M. Sverdlov was a 
leader of this type. 
An organiser to the marrow of his bones, an organiser 
by nature, by habit, by revolutionary training, by instinct, 
an organiser in all his abounding activity‹such 
is the portrait of Y. M. Sverdlov. 
What does being a leader and organiser mean under 
our conditions, when the proletariat is in power? It 
does not mean choosing assistants, setting up an office 
and issuing orders through it. Being a leader and organiser, 
under our conditions, means, firstly, knowledge of 
the cadres, ability to discern their merits and shortcomings, 
ability to handle them; and secondly, ability to 
arrange them in such a way that: 
1) each one feels that he is in the right place; 
2) each one is able to serve the revolution to the utmost 
of his ability; 
3) this arrangement of cadres results not in hitches, 
but in harmony, unity and the general progress of the 
work as a whole;

J. V. S T A L I N 290 
4) the general trend of the work organised in this 
way serves as the expression and implementation of the 
political idea for the sake of which the cadres are assigned 
to their posts. 
Y. M. Sverdlov was precisely that kind of leader and 
organiser of our Party and of our state. 
The period of 1917-18 marked a turning point for 
the Party and the state. In that period the Party, for 
the first time, became a ruling force. For the first time 
in human history a new kind of power came into being, 
the power of the Soviets, the power of the workers and 
peasants. To transfer the Party, which hitherto had been 
underground, to the new lines, to create the organisational 
foundations of the new proletarian state, to devise 
the organisational forms of the inter-relations between 
the Party and the Soviets that would ensure leadership 
by the Party and normal development for the Soviets‹ 
such was the extremely complicated organisational 
problem that then confronted the Party. Nobody in the 
Party will dare to deny that Y. M. Sverdlov was one 
of the first, if not the first, skilfully and painlessly to 
solve that organisational problem of building the new 
Russia. 
The ideologists and agents of the bourgeoisie are 
fond of repeating threadbare assertions that the Bolsheviks 
are unable to build, that they are only able to destroy. 
Y. M. Sverdlov, all his activities, are a living refutation 
of these falsehoods. Y. M. Sverdlov and his work 
in our Party were not the result of chance. The Party 
that produced a great builder like Y. M. Sverdlov can 
boldly say that it can build the new as well as it can 
destroy the old.

Y. M. SVERDLOV 291 
I do not by any means claim that I am fully acquainted 
with all the organisers and builders of our Party, but 
I must say that of all the outstanding organisers I am 
acquainted with, I know only two, of whom, next to Lenin, 
our Party can and should be proud: I. F. Dubrovinsky, 
who died in exile in Turukhansk, and Y. M. Sverdlov, 
who worked himself to death in building the Party and 
the state. 
Proletarskaya Revolyutsia, 
No. 11 (34), November 1924 
Signed: J. S t a l i n

CONCERNING THE INTERNATIONAL 
SITUATION 
In characterising the present international situation, 
I think that there is no need to take into account all the 
facts of some degree of importance, absolutely all the 
specific features of the present state of international 
affairs. For this purpose it is sufficient to take into account 
only the principal, decisive factors in the present 
situation. At the present time there are, in my opinion, 
three such factors: 
a) the opening of an ³era² of bourgeois-democratic 
³pacifism²; 
b) the intervention of America in European affairs 
and the Entente¹s London agreement on reparations; 
c) the strengthening of the Left-wing elements in 
the European labour movement and the growth of the 
international weight and prestige of the Soviet Union. 
Let us examine these principal factors. 
1. THE PERIOD OF BOURGEOIS-DEMOCRATIC 
³PACIFISM² 
The Entente has proved incapable of coping with the 
results of its war victories. It fully succeeded in defeating 
Germany and in encircling the Soviet Union. It also 
succeeded in drawing up a plan for plundering Europe.

CONCERNING THE INTERNATIONAL SITUATION 293 
This is shown by the innumerable conferences and treaties 
of the Entente countries. But it has proved incapable of 
carrying out that plan of plunder. Why? Because the 
contradictions between the countries in the Entente are 
too great. Because they have not succeeded, and will not 
succeed, in reaching agreement on sharing the loot. Because 
the resistance of the countries to be plundered is 
growing stronger and stronger. Because the implementation 
of the plan of plunder is fraught with military conflicts, 
and the masses do not want to fight. It is now obvious 
to ³everybody² that the imperialist frontal attack 
on the Ruhr with the object of annihilating Germany has 
proved to be dangerous for imperialism itself. It is also 
obvious that the undisguised imperialist policy of ultimatums, 
with the object of isolating the Soviet Union, 
is merely producing results opposite to those intended. 
A situation was created in which Poincaré and Curzon, 
while faithfully and loyally serving imperialism, nevertheless, 
by their ³work² intensified the growing crisis in 
Europe, roused the resistance of the masses to imperialism, 
and pushed the masses towards revolution. Hence, the 
bourgeoisie¹s inevitable transition from the policy of 
frontal attack to the policy of compromise, from undisguised 
to disguised imperialism, from Poincaré and Curzon 
to MacDonald and Herriot. Naked plundering of 
the world has become dangerous. The Labour Party in 
Britain and the Left bloc in France58 are to serve as a 
cloak to cover the nakedness of imperialism. That is the 
origin of ³pacifism² and ³democracy.² 
Some people think that the bourgeoisie adopted ³pacifism² 
and ³democracy² not because it was compelled 
to do so, but voluntarily, of its own free choice, so to

J. V. S T A L I N 294 
speak. And it is assumed that, having defeated the working 
class in decisive battles (Italy, Germany), the bourgeoisie 
felt that it was the victor and could now afford 
to adopt ³democracy.² In other words, while the decisive 
battles were in progress, the bourgeoisie needed a fighting 
organisation, needed fascism; but now that the proletariat 
is defeated, the bourgeoisie no longer needs fascism 
and can afford to use ³democracy² instead, as a better 
method of consolidating its victory. Hence, the conclusion 
is drawn that the rule of the bourgeoisie has become 
consolidated, that the ³era of pacifism² will be a prolonged 
one, and that the revolution in Europe has been 
pigeonholed. 
This assumption is absolutely wrong. 
Firstly, it is not true that fascism is only the fighting 
organisation of the bourgeoisie. Fascism is not only 
a military-technical category. Fascism is the bourgeoisie¹s 
fighting organisation that relies on the active support 
of Social-Democracy. Social-Democracy is objectively 
the moderate wing of fascism. There is no ground 
for assuming that the fighting organisation of the bourgeoisie 
can achieve decisive successes in battles, or in 
governing the country, without the active support of 
Social-Democracy. There is just as little ground for thinking 
that Social-Democracy can achieve decisive successes 
in battles, or in governing the country, without the active 
support of the fighting organisation of the bourgeoisie. 
These organisations do not negate, but supplement 
each other. They are not antipodes, they are twins. Fascism 
is an informal political bloc of these two chief organisations; 
a bloc, which arose in the circumstances of 
the post-war crisis of imperialism, and which is intended

CONCERNING THE INTERNATIONAL SITUATION 295 
for combating the proletarian revolution. The bourgeoisie 
cannot retain power without such a bloc. It would therefore 
be a mistake to think that ³pacifism² signifies 
the liquidation of fascism. In the present situation, 
³pacifism² is the strengthening of fascism with its 
moderate, Social-Democratic wing pushed into the forefront. 
Secondly, i t is not true that the decisive battles 
have already been fought, that the proletariat was defeated 
in these battles, and that bourgeois rule has been 
consolidated as a consequence. There have been no decisive 
battles as yet, if only for the reason that there have 
not been any mass, genuinely Bolshevik parties, capable 
of leading the proletariat to dictatorship. Without such 
parties, decisive battles for dictatorship are impossible 
under the conditions of imperialism. The decisive battles 
in the West still lie ahead. There have been only the 
first serious attacks, which were repulsed by the bourgeoisie; 
the first serious trial of strength, which showed 
that the proletariat is not yet strong enough to overthrow 
the bourgeoisie, but that the bourgeoisie is already unable 
to discount the proletariat. And precisely because the 
bourgeoisie is already unable to force the working class 
to its knees, it was compelled to renounce frontal attacks, 
to make a detour, to agree to a compromise, to resort to 
³democratic pacifism.² 
Lastly, it is also not true that ³pacifism² is a sign 
of the strength and not of the weakness of the bourgeoisie, 
that ³pacifism² should result in consolidating the power 
of the bourgeoisie and in postponing the revolution for 
an indefinite period. Present-day pacifism signifies the 
advent to power, direct or indirect, of the parties of

J. V. S T A L I N 296 
the Second International. But what does the advent to 
power of the parties of the Second International mean? 
It means their inevitable self-exposure as lackeys of imperialism, 
as traitors to the proletariat, for the governmental 
activity of these parties can have only one result: 
their political bankruptcy, the growth of contradictions 
within these parties, their disintegration, their decay. 
But the disintegration of these parties will inevitably 
lead to the disintegration of the rule of the bourgeoisie, 
for the parties of the Second International are props of 
imperialism. Would the bourgeoisie have undertaken 
this risky experiment with pacifism if it had not been 
compelled to do so; would it have done so of its own 
free will? Of course, not! This is the second time that the 
bourgeoisie is undertaking the experiment with pacifism 
since the end of the imperialist war. The















































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































































